              »»»»»»»»»»»»» Aszart presents «««««««««««««

                           Mystery Fish v1.16

                           A FREEWARE game by
                         (c) Jim Marshall 1994
                         coded in Blitz Basic 2

                     Code and Gfx : James Marshall
                        Music : Stuart Radforth
                   Additional Help: Richard Meathrel

About FREEWARE
--------------
  Mystery Fish is a FREEWARE game. This means you are allowed to copy it
freely and distribute it to whoever you want, but the copyright remains
with the author. You can't take any of the graphics, music or code for your
own uses. Also, if you are distributing copies of the game, you must obey
the following rules :

         1 : No money should be charged for a copy of this game except to
             cover duplication, disk, and postage costs (in the case of
             Public Domain libraries).
         2 : This readme should always be included with the game, and it's
             contents should not be altered in any way.
         3 : None of the game files (code, music and graphics) should be
             altered in any way.

Installing the game to floppy
-----------------------------
  If you have unpacked Mystery Fish from an lha file (from Aminet), you
will need to do the following to run the game straight from disk :

         1 : Rename the disk to "MysteryFish" from Workbench.
         2 : Enter the shell and type "install df0:" (assuming the game
             disk is in your internal drive).
         3 : Reboot the Amiga and play!

A word from the author
----------------------
  Hello and welcome to Mystery Fish, my first ever platform game. The game
will run on any Amiga with 1Mb of CHIP RAM or more, ie A500+, A600, A1200,
etc.  and has been tested to run under v1.3 and better of Workbench.
You will need a joystick or CD32 pad (the extra buttons are utilised) to
play.
  Mystery Fish is "auto-enhancing"... if you have an AGA computer (A1200 or
A4000) you will automatically get better graphics. The game is also hard
disk installable as follows... Simply enter workbench as usual and then
drag the MysteryFish drawer from the floppy disk to a drawer on your hard
disk, that's all there is to it!
  The game itself is a platform puzzler with 50 frames per second, multi
directional scrolling, 50+ colours on screen (even more with AGA!), 100Kb
of music by Stuart, and 10 levels. I hope it gives you an idea of what can
can be done with some imagination, a copy of Blitz Basic 2, and a little
effort. Enjoy!
  NOTE: I've encountered problems running the game on a Blizzard 1230-IV
equipped A1200 because for some reason the music screws up. The problem
can be solved by disabling the Blizzard, but I don't know about possible
problems with other accelerator cards...

Playing the game
----------------
  This is what you really want to know isn't it!? It couldn't be simpler,
there are 10 levels in the game, which you have to clear of green gems
(don't ask why!), BUT you are hindered by BAD GUYS (boo! hiss!), ICY
PLATFORMS and a TIMER. Luckily you also have three Mystery Powers to help
you on your quest (hooray!). Complete all 10 levels in the shortest possible
time and you'll have won, but it isn't as easy as it sounds...

   KEYS : 'M' Toggle music on/off during the game
          'space' Access/exit your Mystery Powers menu

   CD32 CONTROLLER BUTTONS : Play/pause - Toggle music on/off during the
                                          game
                             Blue button - Access/exit your Mystery Powers
                                           menu
                             Red button - Fire button

   MYSTERY POWERS : Select with up, down and fire, or keys 1,2 and 3

                    Magic Cloud - Allows you to fly for 10 seconds, or you
                                  can dispel the cloud by pressing the fire
                                  button.
                    Turn Invisible - You turn invisible for 10 seconds and
                                     during this time can't be killed by
                                     any bad guys. To re-appear press the
                                     fire button.
                    Zap! - Gives you an electric charge that will kill the
                           next bad guy you touch, but is then discharged.

   BAD GUYS : Dizzy - All this spinning top does is move to and fro on his
                      platform, but he's quite fast so look out!
              Chucky - This flying rubber duck will tirelessly chase you
                       around the level, but he's not too fast.
              Cyril - Cyril the snake is the laziest of all the bad guys,
                      he just stay's put and waits for you to run into him.

   SCORING : Gem - 100 points
             Zapping a bad guy - 50 points
             Per second left on completing a level - 100 points

Contacting the Author
---------------------
   If you have any bug reports, suggestions or any cool ideas about new
games, you can email me at...

            J.A.R.Marshall@exeter.ac.uk

   That's all you need to know, so have fun and keep 'em peeled for the
next Aszart release. Until then,

                                  bye!
                                    Jim
