			       @GCHIP'S CHALLENGE@H

Cracked, packed, linkfiled by The Genie, megatrained by Alien and Genie,
megathanks to Blade for the original! Megathanks to Yum Yum for typing these
full docs!

Keys:

X	Abort game
R	Restart level
P	Pause
F	Flip screen (ho ho very funny Lynx joke)
F1	Toggle music on/off
F2	Toggle sound effects on/off
L	Level skip (if enabled in trainer)

Joystick in port #1 as usual.

@GGO BIT BUSTER!@H

Chip will do anything for Melinda the Mental Marvel. More than anything, he
wants to join Melinda's exclusive computer club, the Bit Busters. Chip is
ecstatic when Melinda sits down next to him in the cafeteria and offers him
membership!

But not so fast, Chip! Keep your sweaty digits off that Bit Busters T-shirt.
Before you can become a card-carrying Bit Buster, you'll have to do some
heavy interfacing with a few interesting puzzles. Melinda will monitor your
progress as you enter and work your way through 144 levels of challenging
maze-like paths and puzzles. And once you accept the challenge, you can't
escape. Monsters, traps, and the ticking of the clock all conspire to delete
you before you complete each level.

You must ram blocks of soil together to create bridges over water traps, or
use them as buffers against cherry bombs. Invisible partitions will impede
your progress. Coloured keys will open doors that lead to other keys that
will open still more doors! To make it through, you must keep puzzle sequences
stored in your memory.

Most levels have a specific number of... chips that you must collect before
you can progress to the next level. And sometimes you must snatch those chips
from under the very noses of deadly bugs who are just aching to take a byte
out of you!

Well, Chip, are you still up for the challenge? You can't get that Bit Busters
T-shirt out of your system, can you? OK buddy, make tracks for level one of
Chip's Challenge!


@GPLAYING THE GAME@H

Every level of Chip's Challenge is a unique puzzle. The object of the game is
to enter and explore each level to figure out the puzzle's solution, solve the
puzzle, and progress to the next level. On most levels you must also collect a
specific number of chips as part of the puzzle's solution.

The puzzles start out easy. You will wander your way through mazes, collect
keys to open doors, use teleport squares to move from place to place, and
other simple tasks. But the puzzles become progressively more difficult. You
will need to quickly assemble webs of bridges to reach your goals, pay
attention to subtle hidden clues, and figure out, memorise, and execute
complex series of actions.

If that wasn't enough, each level contains challenges such as obstacles,
traps, and monsters. And on some levels you must race against the clock to
solve the puzzle before the time suns out.

You get several tries to solve each puzzle, then you are given the option to
skip to the next level. But Bit Busters don't give up easily! You can hang in
there and keep trying until you solve the puzzle.

The first eight levels are lesson levels. These levels introduce you to most
puzzle components and give you a chance to get comfortable with the game's
basic concepts. A question mark appears next to Chip at the beginning of each
level. For more detailed information about the obstacles and special items you
can find see ITEMS.

Use your joystick to move Chip forward, backward, left and right. Chip cannot
move diagonally.

Useful items such as keys and shields must be picked up and added to Chip's
inventory. To pick up items, move Chip over the item.

The item will disappear from the action window and an icon representing the
item will appear in the inventory section of the information window.

Most levels have a specific number of chips that you must collect as part of
the puzzle solution before you can pass through the chip socket and progress
to the next level. When you first enter each level, the number of chips you
must collect for that level appears under CHIPS LEFT in the information
window. On these levels you must solve parts of the puzzle to gain access to
the chips.

On some levels the CHIPS LEFT indicator is set to zero when you enter the
level. This means that you do not have to collect any chips to solve the
puzzle.

When you solve a puzzle level, a congratulatory message appears on the screen.
Press FIRE to continue to the next level.


@GSCREEN@H

The Chip's Challenge screen is divided into two windows, the Action window and
the Information window. All game action displays in the Action window.

The window to the right of the Action window is the information window. The
following information displays in the Information window :-


LEVEL shows the level number you are currently playing.

TIME gives the number of seconds remaining for you to solve the solve the
puzzle.

CHIPS LEFT lets you know how many chips you still need to find on the current
level.

The INVENTORY BOX displays icons of all the items you have picked up and have
not yet used.


@GITEMS AND OBSTACLES@H

Items cannot be taken from one level to another. The following items can be
found on various levels:

@GHELPFUL ITEMS@H

KEYS open doors. Pick them up and add them to your inventory until they are
needed. To use a key, walk up to a door of the same colour as the key. Pass
through the door. Most keys will disappear from your inventory.

DOORS are opened by keys of the same colour as the door. Once the coloured
door is opened it stays open.

CHIPS enable you to pass each level's chip socket. Most levels have a required
number of chips you must collect to pass through the chip socket and progress
to the next level.

EXIT SQUARES are flashing blue squares found on every level. Step on an exit
square to proceed to the next level.

DIRT BLOCKS can be linked together to form bridges over water, pushed against
a bomb to explode the bomb harmlessly, and used as blocks against monsters,
deadly lightning balls, and other moving obstacles.

You can only move one brown dirt block at a time. If you place a dirt block to
make a bridge over water, you must tramp down the dirt to turn it into a
regular floor square. To do this, step on the block after pushing it into the
water.

NOTE: You may find things hidden under some dirt blocks. Sometimes the things
you find are valuable, like chips. But you may find the block was covering
something unpleasant, such as a fire trap.

TRIP BUTTONS are linked to toggle blocks, clone machines, and other obstacles.
A trip button's colour matches the colour of the linked trap or obstacle.
Stepping onto a trip button square triggers the linked item. For example
moving chip over a green trip button square will open (or close) all linked
green toggle blocks. Or moving over a red trip button will cause a red linked
clone machine to begin releasing fireballs. Duck Chip!

MAGNETS neutralises the effect of force floor traps. With a magnet in his
inventory, Chip can walk over a force floor the same way he would walk over a
normal floor.

FIRE SHIELDS neutralise fire. With a fire shield in his inventory, Chip can
walk through fire without suffering a major meltdown.

WATER SHIELD allows Chip to walk on water.

CLEATS allows Chip to travel over ice traps without slipping. With cleats in
his inventory, Chip can walk over ice the same way he would walk over a normal
floor.

NOTE: Magnets, fire and shields, water shields and cheats stay in inventory,
they do not disappear after they are used.


@GTRAPS, MONSTERS, AND OBSTACLES@H

TRAPS must be disarmed before you can pass through them. There are many kinds
of traps. Some hold you prisoner until your time runs out, others zap you as
soon as you step on them. You can disarm same traps with strategic placement
of dirt blocks.

FORCE FLOOR TRAPS propel you with lightning speed from one area to another
without allowing you to stop. Sometimes you can use this force to propel you
to a desired location, but most of the time you will need to collect a magnet
to neutralise the effect of the force floor.

FIRE TRAPS are impassable bonfires laid out to block your progress. Use a fire
shield to walk through fire traps.

WATER TRAPS can be crossed in two ways. Either build a bridge of dirt blocks
or have a water shield in your inventory.

ICE TRAPS are slippery obstacles that make Chip slide right past his goal.
Chip needs cleats to be able to walk over ice traps.

MONSTERS want to destroy Chip. They think he's a dweeb and will show no mercy.
One touch from a monster and you'll cash in your chips.

TANKS block the way through crucial paths in some levels. Tanks are always
linked to trip buttons, so the way around tanks is to activate the correct
trip button to move them out of your way.

THIEVES steal tools such as water shields and cleats. Touching a thief wipes
your inventory of all items. Make sure you use the tools you need to collect
chips before trying to pass by a thief.

TELEPORT SQUARES move you to another location in the level. Some of them
teleport you in the direction you are facing when you step on them. Others
teleport you in random directions. Chip may step on one of these and suddenly
get the feeling he isn't in Kansas anymore.

TOGGLE BLOCKS are outlined in broken coloured lines. The blocks can be solid
or transparent. When the toggle block is solid, Chip cannot pass through.
These blocks are linked to trip buttons. When Chip activates a trip button,
the toggle blocks linked to that button will toggle to the other state (solid
or transparent).

CHIP SOCKETS are special obstacles found in most levels. You must pass through
a chip socket to reach the next level, but only after you have collected the
required number of chips for that level.

CLONE MACHINES crank out fireballs, dirt blocks, and other items. Most clone
machines are linked to trip buttons. if you need a dirt block, activate the
linked trip button and the clone machine will produce one. If you want to stop
the fireballs, activate the linked trip button. Hopefully, the deadly barrage
will stop!

BLUE BLOCKS can be real walls or just an illusion. To figure out which a
particular block is, try to pass through. If it is an illusion, it will
disappear. If it is real, Chip will break his nose!

ONE WAY WALLS turn into solid walls once you pass through them.


@GSTRATEGY@H

Take notes and draw maps of the difficult levels.

Leave yourself an escape route whenever possible.

Timing is crucial on some levels. Press 'P' to give yourself time to think.

If the obvious solution doesn't work, try a bizarre solution. The bizarre will
usually pull you through.

Monsters often move in predictable patterns.

Many objects affect monsters the same way they affect Chip.

If you get stuck in an impossible situation, press 'R' to restart the level.


@GSCORING@H

You can earn points in two ways in Chip's Challenge. On each level, time bonus
points combine to give you your level score. During each play session, your
level scores add together and display as your total score.

The number of level bonus points you earn depends on how many times you have
to repeat the level before successfully completing the level. If you complete
the level on the first try, you receive 500 points multiplied by the level
number. Each time you die or have to restart, the number of points you receive
decreases by 20%. The minimum level bonus is 500 points or 20% of the level
number * 500, whichever is greater.

You receive 10 time bonus points for every second remaining on the timer when
you complete a level. On levels that are not timed, the time bonus is always
zero.
