@G=bold on
@H=bold off
@4=italic on
@5=italic off

			@GWarlock The Avenger.@H

	Cracked, Packed, linkfiled, and docs by The Genie of the POMPEY 
PIRATES. Trained by the ALIEN. As hte game supplier didn't supply the docs,
the following is only what I have found out about the game while play testing.


			@4Idea of the game@5

	Get round the maze and kill the four Guadians (sounds easy, huh)!


			@4Controls@5

	Direction of movement is by joystick in port 1 for the Warlock.

Keyboard Controls:-

P	Pause.

F1	Unlock Door (you must collect a key from the treasure chest first).

F2	Paralize the baddies (you must collect the icon from the treasure chest
	as above).

F3	Summon Golem (collect the Golem icon, then you must stand on the
	Pentacle, then hit F3).

F6	Toggle bullets (water, fire, and lightning)

F7	Command Golem (options are:- Wait, follow, and send)

F10	Control Golem (options are:- Joystick in port 0, or via F7)


			@4Hints@5

	Run around killing the baddies only when absolutly necessary so that
you don't run out of bullets (you will start off with fifty of each, and they
don't last long)! Make sure you find all of the treasure chests and collect
only the item that you think will be the most useful to you, as you can only
pick up one item from each chest. It is always a good idea to get all the keys
that you can, as they are the ones that tend to be most needed (if you don't
get enough, then you won't be able to get past that door just around the
corner)! Always make sure that if you are not going to get a key from a chest
that the bullets etc. gives you "the most for your money".
	To get the object of your choice whilst in a chest, simply move the
joystick up/down until you are over the icon of your choice, then hit fire.
	To open a door first make sure you have a key, then go to the door and
hit F1. If the door does not open, then move the warlock about a bit and try
again (this is due to crummy programming, the stupid detection is really bad).
	To kill a Guardian you will need at leat four smart bombs, and 198
bullets (99 of two kinds - 99 is the most you can collect for each type).
	Don't go over the water, but always use the bridges.
	The Golem can be a real pain in the butt, if used via F7, I found it
best to send away most of the time so that he got the most baddies, but don't
loose him, 'cause he can get stuck.

	Well that's about it, it's certainly enough to get you into the game
anyway.

	Just as a final note please can our ORIGINAL suppliers start sending
the docs withe the disks again, as this is one of the main reasons people like
our menus. Remember it takes us a lot of time to get the stuff cracked, packed
linkfiled, and trained for your pleasure, the final touches such as doc files
make the games playable!

					GENIE.
