Patience V1.0
=============

This may not be a version of patience you're used to; it's certainly
different from the norm as far as computer simulations of the game go.  I
programmed this version purely because this is the one I play and its the
one my Grandma taught me (ah, how quiant!).

The basics go like this:
The cards are dealt 7 across by 7 down the number of cards on each row
decreasing by one and the first card on each row being face up such that
the cards are indented to the left (just run the blinkin program and see).
The rest of the deck of cards is placed face down at the bottom of the
screen.  A number to the right of this indicates the number of cards in
this pack and only alters when a card is removed from the pack onto the
dealt cards, or table.  The aim is to shuffle the visible cards about
until you get a run of cards from a king to and ace in alternating
coloured suits.  Once this is done, the run is removed from play and
placed at the bottom left of the screen.  The game and when all cards are
sorted this way and, hence there are four finished runs.

You can move cards, therefore, onto cards which are the opposite colour
and numerically one more than the card being moved.  Kings are the only
card which can be moved into an empty column - there are a maximum of
seven columns.  Once a card or set of cards has been moved from the table
the card underneath is turned over automatically so it enters play.  Cards
from the pack may be introduced at any time as long as the card is facing
up.  The pack works as follows.  Every time you click on the deck three
cards are laid.  This makes things a little complicated when the number of
cards left in the deck is a multiple of three - beware not to get left
with the cards in the deck you want, but can't get at!

Selecting is straight forward, just click on the card you want to move so
it is highlighted in yellow.  Then click on the area where you want to
move it to.  If its a valid move, it will be moved.  Selecting a number of
cards is done automatically - just try it!

Read the readme for more info.
Have Fun!
