            Santa and Rudolph Do Christmas
            ------------------------------

It is Christmas Eve, and all around the world little
children are going to bed.  In their voices excitement
can be heard and the thrill of not knowing what presents
they will be receiving.  Far away at the North Pole Santa
and Rudolph are setting out to deliver these presents.

This year though, the Sandman has other ideas and plans
to stop Santa and Rudolph, discrediting them and taking
over Christmas for himself.  He has already kidnapped
all of Santa's Elves and plans to force them into working
in his own factory, making toys to his design.

Santa and Rudolph learning of these plans too late, have
no time to stop the Sandman, and so must make all their
deliveries before dealing with him.  To stop them achieving
this the Sandman has sent his creatures into the world,
but little does he know that Santa and Rudolph have gone
prepared...


                           ---**---

                        GETTING STARTED

From Floppy Disk:  1. Turn off your Amiga.
                   2. Insert the game disk in the internal
                      drive.
                   3. Turn on the computer.
                   4. The game will load and run
                      automatically.

To Install on Hard Disk:
                   1. Boot your Amiga from Hard Disk.
                   2. Insert game disk in any drive.
                   3. Double-click "Santa&Rudolph" disk
                      icon.
                   4. Drag "Santa&Rudolph" drawer to where
                      you want the game on the Hard Disk.
                   5. Copy the fonts contained within the
                      "Fonts" directory on the game disk
                      into the "Fonts" directory on your
                      hard disk.
                   6. To play, double-click the
                      "Santa&Rudolph" icon in the
                      "Santa&Rudolph" drawer on the
                      Hard Disk.


                           ---**---

                        TROUBLESHOOTING

If the game fails to run properly then try switching off
all attached devices - e.g. external drives.

Users with Hard Disks should try running the game from
floppy and switching off any active partitions.

Make sure that the fonts on the game disk are contained
within the fonts directory when running the game.


                           ---**---

                           GAMEPLAY

You must guide Santa, or Rudolph, as they travel around
the world.

Armed only with a large gun, you must avoid the hazards
sent by the Sandman whilst collecting the presents and
delivering them to the windows on every screen.  Once the
target number of presents is delivered you will move onto
the next screen.  After three screens the location will
change.

The final level is the Sandmans factory at the North Pole.
Collect the bombs and deposit them in the factory.  Once
all of the bombs have been delivered exit the screen before
the factory explodes.


                           ---**---

                         INSTRUCTIONS

To start the game press Fire.

A selection screen will appear allowing you to choose which
character to play.  Press left/right to make the fairy point
at the character you wish to be.  Pressing fire starts the
game.

After the level introductions, Santa or Rudolph will appear
on the screen via a warp gate.

Control Santa or Rudolph as they float around the screen on
balloons using the joystick.  Gravity and inertia have effect
on the character so a few games may need to be played before
getting used to the controls.

Collect the presents by flying over them and then deliver
them to the windows on each screen.  Only one present will
appear at a time, and a new one will not appear until the
existing one is delivered, or lost.  At the bottom of the
screen the number of presents left to collect is shown.
Once this reaches zero the warp gate to the next screen will
appear.  Touch this gate to move onto the next screen.

Touching a hazard results in the balloon bursting and the
character plunging to the ground below, thus losing a life.
Also if they are carrying a present that present will be lost.
After being stunned briefly, the player can start controlling
the character again.  While  the balloon is flashing the
character is indestructable.  The number of lives left is
shown at the bottom of the screen.

Santa, or Rudolph, are armed with a gun.  Press fire on the
joystick to make the gun shoot.  Shooting hazards may result
in their destruction depending on the type of hazard.  If
destroyed the hazard may drop a bonus object.  Collect this
object for bonus points or an extra life.

If you spend too long on a level, a warning will be issued,
and then after a few seconds sunrise will occur.  All hazards
on the level will then transform into suns and chase after the
character.


                           ---**---

                           OBJECTS

When destroyed, hazards will occasionally drop objects which
can be collected before they hit the ground!

    Sherry Glass:         Bonus Points
    Christmas Pudding:    Bonus Points
    Star:                 Bonus Life


