                                T H E   T U R N
                            ----------------------
The Turn is a Freeware Game. You may copy it to everyone you want, but this
text has to stay on the disk.
PD - Distributors who want to charge fees for copying may only distribute
this game if they have got my permission and a version including the name
of their PD - Series.
The following files are necessary to play the game: TheTurn, Levels, SOT1, SOT2.

The Turn is copyrighted by the author:

                           Peter Händel
                           Bismarckstr. 7a
                           4800 Bielefeld 1
                           West Germany
                           Tel.: 0521 / 122352


                   T H E   G A M E
                  -----------------

The aim of the game is to produce a given pattern of stones on the board.
In order to complicate the game a little bit, all stones around the
selected stone will turn either from black to white or from white to black.
The pattern you have to produce is shown in the square named "Pattern".

After starting the game you get to the main menu. You can look at the
highscore by choosing Highscore. If you choose Chance, the pattern is
generated by random. Five turns will be performed in the first Level and
the number of turns will rise by one for every further level.
If you choose level, you will have to solve the provided levels (if on
disk). You have got 5 minutes for every level, you will have to play the
level again if you run out of time and after the third try the game will
finish. You can reset your board by clicking on "NEW" while playing.
You can end the game by clicking on "Quit" (Who had ever thought of THIS ?)
There are 18 levels available.
If you succeed in playing a level, you will get points for the time left
and bonus points for the next level.
You can reset the highscore by deleting the file "BestTurn"


                T H E   E D I T O R
               ---------------------

Available menu items in the Editor:

If you want to edit a pattern manually, you can choose "Manual".
If you want to generate a board by random, you can choose "Change".
You can take over the edited level by clicking on "Use Level".
"Load" is for loading the previous levels from disk and you can save your
own levels by choosing "Disk". (Attention: old levels will be lost).





