Orbital Eunuchs Sniper

This is a Linux/OS X port of the game 'Orbital Sniper', please read the readme.txt for information on that. It has the zlib license.
To comply with the zlib license, the game is now (as of 1.26):
"Orbital Eunuchs Sniper"


COMPILING, INSTALLING, RUNNING, DELETING AFTER FIGURING OUT THAT THERE'S ONLY ONE LEVEL:

To compile: Type ./configure && make
If this is a CVS build, you will have to run autogen.sh first, and hope
it succeeds :)
If the configure stuff doesn't work for you, you can try: make -f Makefile.orig
If you like, you can install using 'make install'
The binary launcher after 'make install' is 'snipe2d'
If you don't want to make install, then cp src/snipe2d.x86.dynamic bin/; cd bin; ./snipe2d.x86.dynamic
See https://bugzilla.icculus.org/ for a place to file bugs/feature requests.
If you are using the autogenerated Makefile, you may need to use make -i. 
If you get tired of the one level after playing (and having make install'd), rm -rf /usr/local/games/orbital_eunuchs_sniper

KEY BINDINGS:

Left Mouse Button - Fire
Right Mouse Button - Mouse Zoom
Mouse Wheel - Zoom
V - rotate through crosshair verbosity
S - take screenshot ("screenshot.bmp")
P - pause
ESC - end game
Control-Z - iconify window (and pause)
Alt-Enter - toggle fullscreen
Control-G - toggle input grab


PLAYING:

Orbital Eunuchs Sniper is an overhead shooting game. You (the Eunuch on the orbital laser platform) are tasked with protecting the VIPs (blue) from the terrorists (red)!
You view a city from overhead, from the point of a view of an orbiting satellite.
Your laser takes some time to recharge.

Control the targeting crosshairs with the mouse.
Fire the weapon with Left Mouse Button.
Zoom with the mousewheel, or hold down Right Mouse Button while moving the mouse up/down.


IN-GAME VIEW:

VIPs are marked with blue reticles.
Terrorists (the enemy) are marked with red reticles.
Innocent pedestrians are marked with white reticles.
Missed shots (craters) are marked with black reticles.
Blue lines indicate the destinations of VIPs.
Red lines indicate the target/destination of the terrorists.
Dot markers on the screen edge indication positions beyond the current view borders.

Around the crosshairs are information about the satellite and any targetted persons.
Rotate through the amount of information displayed by pressing 'V'.


OTHER ACTIONS:

Press ESC (Escape key) to end the game.
Your stats are displayed, and you may start a new game or exit.

Press 's' to take a screenshot (a copy image of the game window).
The screenshot is written to the file "screenshot.bmp".

Press 'p' to pause the game.
To resume, press 'p' again, press ESC, or double-click left mouse button.

Press Control-Z to iconify and pause the game window.
Use your window manager to restore the game window; OES stays paused
mode until you force it unpaused after this restore.

Press Alt-Enter to toggle between fullscreen and windowed mode.

Press Control-G to toggle input grabbing.
Mouse movement does not affect targeting crosshairs.
Input cannot be released in fullscreen mode.

If you want to change the browser, edit your ~/.oes/prefs.cfg's wwwbrowser
variable.


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS:

I pour a fourty oz on the ground for my homies that helped me port this:
Danny Dan Dan Olofson
Steven "Dell kid" Fullmer
Adnan "Badnan" Zafar
Whathahell "yem" Simyfollnaem
Michael "Tofudebeest" Vance
Jeff W.R. 
and
Mike "What did you do with my Wife" Phillllllllllllllllllllllllllips
Emmett Plant
and others!
-zakk@timedoctor.org


CHANGELOG:

Note that the ChangeLog has been moved to an appropriately named file.
