                                
                                
                                        AF1 - Alien Formula One
                                                (DEMO)
                                                V 0.9a
                            The Alien quest for a good F1 game on the Amiga

    IMPORTANT: THE MATERIAL INCLUDED IN THIS DEMO, THAT IS CODE & ARTWORK, IS MY OWN CREATION. AS
               IT`S ONLY A DEMO, NO RIGHTS ARE RESERVED, SO IT`S FREELY REDISTRIBUTABLE AS LONG AS
               THIS README FILE IS INCLUDED WITH IT. I EXPECIALLY GIVE MY PERMISSION TO AMIGA MAGAZINES
               TO INCLUDE IT IN ANY COVERDISK/COVERCD AND/OR MAKE ANY REVIEW/PREVIEW OF IT.
               THE DEMO ITSELF IS PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED
               OR IMPLIED; USE IT AT YOUR OWN RISK !!! IN NO EVENT I WILL BE LIABLE FOR DIRECT,
               INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES RESULTING FROM THIS DEMO !!!

        INTRODUCTION

    Have you ever wanted to try the feeling of 300 kmh speed ? Have you ever wanted to race head-to-
head with the best F1 drivers in the world ? Have you been waiting for years for a good F1 simulation
game for your beloved Amiga, seeing instead only stupid d**m clones ? Well, your wait is finished.
    The Alien is proud to present you its FAST, REALISTIC, BREATH-TAKING GFX Formula One Car Racing
Simulator DEMO !!! It`ll features:

-       Full TEXTURE-MAPPING/LIGHT-SOURCING/GOURAUD-SHADING 3D GFX ENGINE in 1x1 FULL-SCREEN directly
        coded onto the planar architecture of the AGA chipset (NO STUPID CHUNKY ROUTINES, NO STUPID 
        CHUNKY-TO-PLANAR CONVERSION REQUIRED) for the maximum of the speed, capable of very very 
        smooth animation even on slow 25MHz 020/030 Amigas (if you own a 060, it`ll even better, 
        of course)

-       First-person perspective improved by the VirtuaCockpit(tm) feature, your car`s cockpit is
        not pre-painted, it`s REAL TIME RENDERED in full 3d, allowing for driver`s head motion
        simulation
        
-       Realistic Car Simulation, obtained by real-time integration of the differential equation
        system of the mathematical model of a REAL F1 CAR (NO EURISTIC ALGORITHMS USED, YOU`LL NOT
        SEE AN OUT-RUN CLONE), allowing for realistic car set-up sessions with lots of controls to
        play with (tires, tires pressure, tires camber, shocks, spoilers, engine ROM mapping, etc.)

-       40 sec. of Instant Replay to see crashes, tail-heads etc. with Fast Forward and Still Motion
        features

-       Pseudo-Intelligent Opponents to make the game even more realistic - race tire-against-tire
        with the best F1 Drivers !!!

        SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
        
    An AGA Amiga, of course. As stated before, the game will be very good even on a 25Mhz 020/030
Amiga; if you simply own a bog-standard A1200 (I hope it`s not the case), probably the game won`t
go at all (I have not tested this, but I`m not sure the game can run in 2Meg memory), and if it
goes, it`ll be slow (remember the game is anytime full-screen in 1x1 resolution). Try disabling the
VirtuaCockpit(tm) feature to get a bit more speed (see "GAME CONTROLS" below), and begin to consider
to buy a cheap accelerator board (nowadays they are very cheap).
    To gain the maximum speed available, the game is not that OS friendly, as it pokes directly into
the AGA chipset for some functions, though it`s capable of correct multi-tasking as long as audio
channels are not used by other programs (multi-tasking is disabled for default, but you can re-enable
and re-disable it whenever you want pressing some keys on the keyboard - see below)
    You cannot, of course, run Alien Formula One on a graphic board for the simple fact
that the graphic routines are made for the planar architecture of the AGA chipset: the way to make
texture-mapping on the Amiga simply copying the algorithms created for chunky-based computers (and then
wondering how to convert the graphics so rendered) is a stupid way, in my opinion; a REAL coder must
be able to CREATE algorithms for his computer, remember those days of the Spectrum or the C=64, when
people were able to make MAGIC with such simple piece of hardware !!! If you own a powerful, planar-
based SuperAmiga kick those stupid PC coders who say you cannot do this and that in the a** and show 
them what can be done with a bit of intelligence and coding skill !!!

        INSTALLING THE GAME
        
    To run AF1, simply copy all the files of the archive on a floppy disk, or in some
directory/partition of your hard disk. Then, add the following logical assign-ment to your
user-startup (or you can do it on-the-fly from a normal Shell when you want to play):

    assign AF1_DATA: Wherever-I-Have-Copied-The-Files-To
    
Then, simply run the AFormulaOne program either by double-clicking its icon or by running it via the 
Shell (N.B.: if you run the game from the Shell, you can activate some advanced options - see below)

        GAME CONTROLS
        
    You control your car with the mouse (in the future I`ll add the proportional joystick control,
but this type of device seems not to be very used on the Amiga): left and right to steer... ehr, 
left and right (sure ?), right mouse button to accelerate, left mouse button to brake. To control the
gearbox you must use the up-down cursor keys on the keyboard or, alternatively, the joystick in port1.
    Other keyboard controls are:

F1      This will disable the VirtuaCockpit(tm) features; if you own a slow slow sloooow Amiga,
        probably that will speed up a bit the game. In the future, when you press this key, a pre-
        painted cockpit will appear; in this demo, the cockpit will simply disappear !
        
F2      Blocks the driver`s head (ie, blocks the cockpit)

F3      Frees the cockpit allowing for driver`s head movement

F4      Activates the Outside View mode

F5      Only present in this demo and only for test reasons, will sometime cause an opponent crash

F6-F7   In the Outside View mode, selects the car to follow

F8      Displays some info (Laps, Lap-Times, Position, etc.)

F9      Displays some more info

F10     Cancel info

ESC     Enter Car SetUp: from here (using the joystick in port 1) you can alter the setting of your
        car. In this demo you can alter only a subset of the settings: Tires, Shocks, Spoilers and
        GearBox; in the final version, there will be everything you can change on a real F1 car. You
        can, of course, Save and Load your settings as well

HELP    Enter Instant Replay mode: the screen will flash slowly in yellow to remember you are seeing
        the last 40sec. of race (you can, of course, change view, enable/disable the VirtuaCockpit,
        etc.); pressing the RIGHT cursor key while in Instant Replay mode will fast forward the replay,
        while pressing the LEFT cursor key will freeze the current frame as long as you keep the key
        pressed

DEL     Exit Instant Replay mode

R       Restore the car: if you find yourself spinning on the grass, press this

Q       Quit the game

UP-DOWN Arrows Keys     Select Gear

M       Enable multi-tasking: multi-tasking is disabled for default, to gain speed; if you want to
        re-enable it, press this key, next you can drag the AF1 screen around the world and re-calc
        your 5000-cells favourite spreadsheet

N       Re-disable multi-tasking

Don`t be surprised if, the first time you play, you find yourself spinning on the grass in a total
loose of control. It`s NOT easy to drive a F1 car, and you must learn how (if it was so easy, why
F1 drivers earn a lot of money ?). Don`t step too much on the gas pedal (ooops, on the right mouse
button) when you are in a slow turn, don`t make too fast left-right steering when your speed is high,
remember that when you brake you can have only a little directionality, and so on. I suggest you to
read a fast-driving manual if you want to know how to make a good lap-time.

        ADVANCED OPTIONS
        
    If you run the game from the shell, you can specify some options on the command-line:
    
1> AFormulaOne [opt1] [opt2]
    
     There are currently only two options available:

d       This option will force AF1 to open a DBLPAL screen instead of the standard PAL one. If you
        own a multisync monitor that is unable to show 15kHz screens, use this option. Note that the
        option is "d" and not "-d" (i.e., type "AFormulaOne d")

r       This option must be the first on the command line, and tells AF1 to start Race Mode. In this
        mode you can run a 20 laps race against your opponents. You will find yourself on the grid in
        2nd position, while the red flashing of the screen will simulate the semaphore; as soon as it
        disappear (~5 sec.) step on the gas and try to win !!! I`m sorry there is currently no
        end-game sequence, if you win the only thing you`ll see is your "1" position number

        MISSING FEATURES OF THE DEMO (ie, BUGS)
        
    I know it`s not so kind of me to release something unfinished, but I have not so much time, and
the demo will miss some features that will be present in the final version of the game.

-       You cannot go in the wrong direction on the track; I had no time to insert the backward
        algorithm for the control-points, so if you go in the wrong direction, the game will
        continue to think you are on the last piece of track reached (I`m sorry you cannot make your
        favourite frontal crash with M.Schumacher...)
        
-       Control-points are not perfectly matched to the track (I had NO time to spend designing them),
        so sometime if you go on the very edge of the track, the game will think you are on the 
        grass...(walls behave the same)
        
-       Cars are undamageable, so you can jump the chicane at 300 kmh and, after that,
        win the race. Opponents cars will as well return on the track and restart, after a crash
        
-       Cars are not time-dependent; you`ll have infinite fuel, infinite tire grip, etc.

-       Car SetUp is limited to Tires, Shocks, Spoilers and GearBox settings; the full SetUp will
        be available in the final version of AF1

-       There are only nine (9) cars on the track. It`s not a problem to add cars (to reach the
        typical 20-22 figure), the problem is 1) I had no time to design them and 2) the track is
        too short, too many cars will congestionate the traffic !!!
        
-       Cars textures were not painted, so you`ll see the Marlnoro Ad (the name is mistaken for 
        copyright reason) where it shouldn`t be, and somewhere you`ll see garbage textures (the game 
        has no way to load what doesn`t exist !!!)

-       Teams are those of 1996; final version will have 1997 teams

-       The instrument panel doesn`t work; you must use your ears to know when it`s time to change gear

-       Audio doesn`t work correctly in Instant Replay mode, and car rolling-pitching is disabled as
        well

-       There`s a well-known bug in the texture-mapping routines that sometimes makes the textured
        polygons to "explode" when you go too close to them; it`s caused by the approximation used
        in my fixed point math, and I`m already working on it

-       Don`t expect any presentation screen/tune, nor any end-game sequence - there aren`t !

-       The aircraft you sometime see is exactly what it seems (!)... if I have time (and permission
        from LucasGames) there will be no problem for my powerful 3d engine to cope with some Amiga
        version of LucasFilm-based games like those you see on PCs (too bad LucasGames itself doesn`t
        make any Amiga version of them...)

-       There`s only ONE track...(* sigh! *)

        CONCLUSION
        
    I hope you`ll enjoy the demo. I`ll make all I can do to complete it and trasform it in a final
F1 car game simulation, but I`m running out of time, because I`m a neo-graduated Electronic Engineer
searching for a job. If you think it`s a shame not to finish a game like this, please seriously
consider the possibility to support its developing, either by sending a bit of cash to me, or by
giving me a hand in the design of 3d tracks and shapes (you must have access to real circuits plans,
if you want to do so), and I`ll insert your name in the Credits section of the final game and share
with you the money I could earn.
    IF YOU ARE AN AMIGA MAGAZINE: feel free to insert this demo in your coverdisk/covercd, and to
make any preview/review of it; I need help to finish the game, so (please!) state it somewhere.
    IF YOU ARE AN AMIGA HARDWARE/SOFTWARE HOUSE: if you think you need a coder in your staff, i`m
currently searching for a job, and I`ll be very glad to finish this game for a real software house;
the Amiga market is not dead, and I`m sure good games yet can make good sellings.
    IF YOU ARE IN ANY WAY INVOLVED IN THE AMIGA MARKET: if you need a young (25 years old) Electronic
Engineer (graduated at the Politecnico of Milan in Italy with very good scores), please contact me;
my dream is to work for/on the computer I used for ten years, it doesn`t matter how (or where).
    
    P.S.: if you have access to the `net, please try to upload this demo to Aminet; I`m trying myself
to do it, but I must rely on my friends` will (too bad I have no internet access).

                                                     
                                                  "...Fiat Amiga et ruant PCs..."
                                                                
                                                             The Alien
                                                      (Engineer Paolo Cattani)
                                                        V.le Piermarini, 4/L
                                                                LODI
                                                              (ITALY)
                                                       TEL/FAX +39-371-30719

