
                         ***     OloFight     ***


Controls:
Joystick in ports 2.

Power:
The  fighters'  energy  is  shown  by the horizontal bars on the top of the
screen.   When  the bar starts flashing and fading to red, it means you are
getting weak and thus your movements will become slower.

Special moves:
Special  moves  are  activated by pushing the fire button until their light
above  the  power  bars turns on; then pick one of the four available slots
(up, down, left, right) moving in that direction.
Every  slot  is  associated  with  a  different  special move.  There are a
limited number of special moves (see "Special move counters").
Attack  special  moves can be neutralized by the shield, which is the first
special move from the left in the game screen before the match.

Special move counters:
Next  to  the  fighters'  icons  you can find the counters of the available
special  moves:   four  numbers in a cross that tell you how many moves are
left for each of the slots.

Grips:
There  are two different grips for each fighter:  get close to the opponent
and move left or right while pushing the fire button.

Keyboard controls:
Pressing the ESC key quits the program.
Pressing the P key pauses the program.


HOW TO RUN THE DEMO:
The  demo  comes  in  two  flavours:   high-detail  and  low-detail.   Most
accelerator  boards  can  handle  the  former,  but  should  you experience
problems with it, they're probably caused by slow access to Chip memory and
the latter should solve them.

Simply  click  on the appropriate OloFight icon (either OloFight_HighDetail
or  OloFight_LowDetail)  or,  in a shell window, enter the demo's directory
and type the name of the appropriate executable (as above).

That's all. Now enjoy!



COPYRIGHT:

All of the files in this archive are Copyright © 1998 The Real Ologram di
Fabrizio Stoduto.

The  contents  of this archive are protected by Copyright laws and The Real
Ologram reserves all of the rights on the files.

It's  forbidden to alter any of the files in this archive in any way and/or
to modify the archive itself.

In  no  event  shall  The Real Ologram be liable for any direct or indirect
damages arising out of the use of the files in this archive.

Redistribution of this archive in its entire form is permitted.

(C)1998 The Real Ologram di Fabrizio Stoduto
via Epitaffio,100 P.co Nuovo Mondo lotto M
80014  Giugliano (NA) - ITALY -
Fax +39-081-5514711, +39-081-5068334
E-mail: ologram@ologram.com, Web site: www.ologram.com
Visit our web site.