                  
                   The Game Players Docs Printing Instructions

------------
Method 1     USING PPMORE
------------

You can print out the docs from my docs disks in an easy manner. All the
files have been powerpacked but can be read automatically with PPMore.
This program will decrunch the file and allow you to select the print option.
In order to print out the docs you must copy your printer driver to the Devs
directory and in the printer directory.  I have my printer set as EpsonX(OLD).
Once you have done this, you need to change Preferences to reflect to the
changes of your printer and save these preferences to this disk. 

The problem with PPmore's print routine is that the program displays and 
prints the text in 78 column format instead of 80 columns that many people 
have used in typing docs. That is why the user sees one or more letters wrap
to the next line. Unfortunately it prints as it displays it.

------------
Method 2      USING THE PROGRAM POWER PACKER
------------

In order to print any of the documents on the the docs disks you must follow
the instructions below:

I've included a program called Powerpacker on several of the docs disks 
including disks #1 and #5. Powerpacker is the program I used to crunch
the doc files. You need to run this program, by typing Power Packer
in CLI. You can interupt my startup sequence on those disks by holding down
the Control D keys during boot. The CLI prompt will appear. It might be
better to move this program to another disk. 

Once you have loaded the Power Packer program, take out the disk. In Df0:
put one of the docs disks that has the document you want to print. In Df1:
put a formatted blank disk.

Just in case, If you don't know how to format or initialize a disk, here's
how. Load your workbench disk. Insert a blank or old disk in df1:  Click on
the Icon of the disk in Df1: an then pull down the menu and highlight the
option which says "initialize". This will format a disk.

Now back to the instructions. Now that you have the one of the docs disks
in Df0: and a formatted disk in Df1: 
Open the preferences menu and set to DATA type. This is important!
Open the project menu in the far left side of the top of the screen by 
holding the right mouse button.  Highlight the "load" option.  There will 
appear a requester on the screen and will have loaded the directory of Df0:
With your mouse, highlight the doc you want to print. It will appear in the
smaller window.  Click on "OK". This will load the doc in memory. It will 
also decrunch the doc, or make it larger, back to it's original size.

Once your have done this, pull down the project menu again, and choose the
save option. Another requester will appear. This time in the small box the
doc you will save to the formatted disk in its original size will be there.
Use your mouse and highlight the first letter of the name in the small box.
Type in "Df1:" in front of the name to save it tø the disk in Df1:

Now you can read it with any word processor or editor.

If you don't have a word processor or text editor, you can still print the
doc through the CLI commands. Lets assume you have a Workbench disk in Df0:
and the uncrunched docs in Df1: then do the following.

	Type df1: (name of file) > PRT:

-----------
Method 3     USING THE PROGRAM DISKMASTER
----------


If you have the program Diskmaster, copy the program PPMore from the doc
disk to the C directory of your Diskmaster disk or C directory of Hard
Drive. 
Select a Command device and type in the following PPMore %s. Save the 
configuration. This will allow you to read and print out any docs from the
disk. You just have to highlight the file and select the device print.

I don't know what to tell you if you can't get your docs printed from one
of the above methods.
