                          Kikugi docs
                        by MERKWooD/MAAD

PLAYING THE GAME

The rules for Kikugi are simple- it is played by jumping one piece over
another piece into an empty space, removing the piece that was jumped.
The goal is to remove as many pieces as possible. Ideally, only one piece
should be left on the board at the end of the game. On some boards, the
last piece must also be left in the "center" position on the board (the
position that was blank at the beginning of the game). Specific details
about where the last piece should be left can be found in the "Help!"
menu by selecting "strategy". If at the end of the game only one piece
is left and in the correct position, then you have won the game and are
rewarded amply.

THE DISPLAY

The Kikugi screen contains The playing board, a timer clock, a control panel,
and pieces remaining and score indicator.

 The Playing board
   This is where all the pieces are moved from.

 Timer clock
   The time can be turned on from the "options" menu. Each move may be timed
   5, 10, or 15 seconds. Also, the entire game may be timed (amount of time
   is based on the difficulty of the current board).

 Pieces remaining and Score indicators
   These indicators are constantly updated during a game. The score is based
   on a combination of time and position. The score is active only when the
   timer is turned on.

 The Control panel
   The control panel allows the user to turn the sound on/off, backup moves,
   and show possible moves by clicking on the appropriate icon. The panel
   also acts as a status indicator by displayibg the number of players.

        -----------------------------------------------------------
        | /     /             /                \           \      |
        -/-----/-------------/------------------\-----------\------
        /     /             /                    \           \
    Sound  Number of    Backup moves        Show all moves  Message area
            Players

   Click on the speaker to toggle the sound on and off. When the sound is
   turned off, a red "X" will be drawn over the speakers.

   Click on the back arrow to backup moves.

   Click on the eye to show all possible moves. A message will be displayed
   in the message area asking "Next" or "Quit" to see another move or to
   return to the game.

   Note: Look under "Help! menu" in this manual to learn more about the show
   all moves funtion.

   All funtions in the control panel are also available from the different
   menus.

MOVING

When Kikugi first loads, the "Original" board will appear. (If you wish to
play another board, select the desired board from the "Boards" menu from the
title bar.)

Note: The "Beginner's" board is recommended to new users in order to teach
basic game play and adapt to the user interface.

Now you are ready to begin...

Move the mouse pointer over the piece you wish to move, single-click on that
piece while continuing to hold down the mouse button. You should hear a sound
confirming that you have picked up the piece.

You are now "holding" a playing piece. Next, you may "drag" the piece to any
legal empty position on the board. Legal moves are jumps left, right, up, or
down (and in some cases, diagonal) over one bordering piece and into an empty
space. If you try to make an illegal move, the computer will warn you with an
appropriate sound.

Note: You may only "pick-up" pieces that are legal to move. If you try to
move a piece that can not be moved by clicking on that piece, nothing will
happen.

When you have moved the piece to the correct position, release the mouse
button. You will hear a second sound confirming that you have dropped the
piece. The playing piece that has been "jumped over" will disappear.

THE MENUS

Menus can be chosen from the menu bar are:

Game menu
Players menu
Options menu
Boards menu
Help! menu

The "Game" menu

         NEW
         LOAD
         SAVE
         ABOUT
         QUIT

 New
   Select to start a new game. The current board will be reset (or "refilled"
   with playing pieces).

 Load
   Select to load a previously saved game. The drawer containing the game
   must be specified (example "dh0:") as well as the filename. Click in the
   drawer and file requesters and type in the names. After you have entered
   the drawer and filenames in the appropriate requesters, click in the box
   marked "OK". The saved game will now load. If you change your mind and do
   not want to load a game, click in the box marked "CANCEL".

 Save
   To save a game, select "Save" from the Game menu and follow the same
   procedure to load a game.

 About
   Selecting "About" will give the software's copyright notice.

 Quit
   When you are finished playing Kikugi, select "Quit" to leave the program.

The "Players" menu

         Solitaire
         Computer
         Two Player

Select "Solitaire" for a one player game. To watch the computer play select
"Computer".

Select "Two player" for a two player game. Moves alternate between both
players. TIMING IS CRITICAL. Scores are based upon board position as well as
time. The first player should move when the mouse pointer is a "1". AFTER THE
FIRST PLAYER HAS MADE HIS MOVE, HE SHOULD IMMEDIATELY TURN OVER THE MOUSE TO
THE SECOND PLAYER. The mouse pointer will change from a "1" to a "2" about 2
seconds after the first player has made his move. The second player should
have the mouse BEFORE the mouse pointer turns into a "2". The second player
should give the mouse back to the first player after he moves. This cycle
will repeat until the game is over. Both players' scores will appear only
after the game.

The "Options" menu

         Sound
         Timer

 Sound
   When sound is selected, a sub-menu will appear with options for turning
   the sound on and off.

 Timer
   When the timer is selected, a sub-menu will appear with options to time
   each move by 5, 10, or 15 seconds. Also, the is an option called
   "challenge" that will time an entire game. The game must be completed
   before the timer runs out. Scoring is active only when the timer is on.

   Note: If your moves are timed, and you fail to move before the timer runs
   out, your score is lowered.

The "Boards" menu

         Beginner's
         Original
         Classic Marble
         Classic Wood
         Redwood
         Short Circuit
         Sea Shells
         Space
         Arcade
         Insanity
         Original II
         Classic Wood II
         Red Wood II
         Short Circuit II
         Sea Shells II

To change the playing board, select the board you wish to play from the
"Boards" menu and wait for the board to load.

The "Help!" menu

         Backup 1 move
         Show all moves
         Strategy
         Meditate

 Backup 1 move
   Select to backup a move. This may also be selected by clicking on the back
   arrow on the control panel.

 Show all moves
   When this option is selected, the computer will display all possible moves
   by blinking each piece that can be legally moved.

 Strategy
   This option will give specific information for solving each board. When
   selected, it will display information about the board that is currently
   being displayed.

 Meditate
   If you need a rest...this option will also allow you to review all the
   moves that have been made.

Thats it!      MERKWooD/MAAD

