
				Peter's Quest:
			    For the Love of Daphne

				     by

				David W. Meny
			       2923 Carmel Way
			    Fairfield, CA  94533

  		      Copyright (c) 1989, David W. Meny

   NOTE:  This program is released into the public domain.  It is intended
	  for non-commercial use only, and no fee will be charged for its
	  distribution besides a minimal charge to cover disk costs.  This
	  manual should accompany the program at all times.  Also entire
	  ownership of this program and manual are retained by the author,
	  David W. Meny.

CHAPTER 1 - THE STORY

   One day, Peter and his girlfriend Daphne went out walking in a nearby
park.  Suddenly, the evil Brutus approached them, knocked Peter out cold,
and stole away with Daphne.  When Peter awoke, he found himself alone in
the park, but he soon discovered a trail of hearts left for him by his
beloved Daphne.  In the distance, he heard Daphne call his name, and his
heart filled with determination to rescue the fair hand of his Daphne back
from the evil clutches of the bully Brutus.
   And so, Peter set out upon his quest to win back his beloved Daphne.
Can you aid Peter in his valiant quest?  Without your assistance, Daphne
may be forever trapped with the evil Brutus...

CHAPTER 2 - THE GAME

   The concept behind "Peter's Quest: For the Love of Daphne" is simple.
Your quest is set in a world composed of 20 levels, riddled with porcupines
and movers.  Collect all the hearts on each level and you will continue on
to the next level.  There are 19 levels in all, each harder than the previous
level.  On level 20, you will battle the evil brute Brutus to win back the
fair hand of Daphne.  Defeat Brutus, and you will have won the game and
reclaimed your lost love.
   Daphne is held captive in a cell and guarded by the evil Brutus.  To free
Daphne, you must find the key which is hidden on one of the 20 levels.  Only
this key will unlock Daphne's cell and free her forever!  After you obtain
the key, the status line at the top of the game screen will turn green to
indicate that you are carrying the key.
   To help you in your journey, you may encounter coins, magic mushrooms,
warps, and disappearing blocks.  Each of these special items are hidden
inside one of the many blocks scattered throughout the 20 levels.  Finding
most of these items will greatly aid you in your quest.  But watch out for
the disappearing blocks; eliminating them can hinder your progress and
possibly make solving that level impossible!  Warps are especially
useful for passing levels, but watch out!  Some warps will take you
back to previous levels!
   Sometimes during your journey, you will be able to find crevices in the
mountains which will enable Peter to climb the mountains without the aid
of the movers or the blocks.  But search carefully; the crevices are very
hard to find!
   You must complete each level in a certain amount of time.  Fail to
complete a level in the allotted amount of time, and you will lose one of
your lives.  When you lose all of your lives, the game is over.  You have
failed to help Peter reclaim the hand of Daphne.  She is trapped forever!
   You may continue your game once from the level on which you were.  Your
score and your coin amount will be reset to zero, and you will be allotted
only two men.  But you will retain the key if you had already found it; you
will not have to retrace your steps to reclaim the key!

CHAPTER 3 - THE CONTROLS

   Peter is controlled via a standard Amiga-compatible joystick plugged into
port #2.  This enables you to multi-task the game (although this is not very
useful on a 512k Amiga because Peter's Quest uses about 400k of memory!).
   After loading the game, the mouse pointer will have disappeared, but it is
still operational.  Simply move the mouse up to the top of the screen, press
and hold down the left button, and drag down the game window to reveal the
Workbench screen.  Whenever you are ready to continue playing the game,
simply return the game screen back to the front and push it back to the top
of the screen.  Click on the game screen, and the mouse pointer will
disappear, and control will have been returned to the game.
   On the main screen, push the joystick up or down to select an option.
Press the fire button to change the highlighted option (this is sometimes a
bit touchy, so check all options before beginning the game!).  Two players
can play the game; they simply alternate turns using the same joystick.
Setting the difficulty simple selects the amount of time allotted to complete
each level.  Select "Begin Quest" to start the game or "Exit" to quit.
   While playing, use the joystick to manuever Peter.  Press the joystick
down by itself when standing on a block to search for hidden items in the
blocks.  Press the fire button alone or when running to jump in the current
direction.  Press the fire button and press the joystick down at the same
time to make Peter fall.  This will enable him to get items from blocks or
hearts that are below him.
   There are only three keys active during play.  Pressing 'P' will pause
the game and pressing 'P' again when paused will restart the game.  Pressing
'S' will toggle the sound on or off.  Finally, pressing the 'ESC' key will
terminate the current man.  Remember to only press each key once, since
multiple strikes of a key will be buffered and then processed.  This may
cause problems, such as multiple terminated men.
   When you finish the game, if you have set a new high score, you will
be prompted to enter your initials.  All of the alphabet and number keys
are accepted, plus various other keys.  Pressing the backspace key will
erase the previous character.  Only three characters are allowed for
input.  Press the RETURN key to end your input. If you have completed the
game and saved Daphne, your level will be recorded as 99 when you set a high
score.

CHAPTER 4 - THE PROGRAM

   Peter's Quest can be started either from the CLI or from Workbench.  From
the CLI, simply type "game" and press RETURN.  From the Workbench, open the
Peter's Quest disk icon and then double click on the game icon. (NOTE: The
game will usually crash causing a Guru alert after attempting to return to
the Workbench.  Normally, starting the game from the CLI will result in
a clean return.  If returning is desired, simply start from the CLI!)
   Make sure that you set the Workbench to operate in 80 column mode.  Text
will be misalligned if Preferences is set to 60 column modes.
   The following files should be on the Peter's Quest disk.  The program may
not work without all of the files!

   graphics (dir)
      	level01		level02
      	level03		level04
	level05		level06
	level07		level08
	level09		level10
	level11		level12
	level13		level14
	level15		level16
	level17		level18
	level19		level20
	title
   sounds (dir)
	boing		coins
	forgot		free_man
	hurry		kiss
	laugh		ouch!
	ow!		pop
	save_me		thanks
	tick

   .info		disk.info
   game			game.info
   help			help.info
   high_scores.dat	more

CHAPTER 5 - CREDITS

   I would just like to take this opportunity to thank the following people
for all the help they gave me during the development of this program:

   Bits 'N Bytes Amiga Computer Store, Fairfield, California -
      for providing the digitizing equipment 
   Kang Su Gatlin -
      for his testing, suggestions, and time
   and Young and Sunny Oh -
      for providing the voices of Daphne

   Without their assistance, this program would never have been completed!
Thank you!

CHAPTER 6 - A NOTE FROM THE AUTHOR

   I have tested this program as much as possible, but there is always the
chance that I missed a bug.  If you encounter an error or a mistatement in
the program or this documentation, then please send me a message at the
address below.  Also, if you have a suggestion or a comment, then contact
me.
   If you have found this program fun, enjoyable, useful (?), or just
plain worth showing to others, then you may consider sending me a small
donation.  This would encourage me to write more programs and enable me
to buy the hardware I really need to write better programs (more RAM,
my own sound digitizer, and much more!  Remember, I am only a 17-year
old junior!)
   This entire game was written in Lattice C version 5.0.2, on an Amiga 1000
with only 512k.  If you are interested in obtaining the source code, then
send me a letter for further details.  Since the code is the fruit of long
labor, I would only release it for personal, private use only (IT WOULD NOT
BE PUBLIC DOMAIN!).  There are over 1500 lines of C source code!  The code
shows how to initialize and use a double buffered 32-color display, animate
bobs and V-sprites, read joystick and keyboard input, and play multi-channel
sound.
   My address is:

		David W. Meny
		2923 Carmel Way
		Fairfield, CA  94533  USA

DWM - May 31st, 1989
 
