






 
                            TRILOGY PRESENTS
 
                        TYPED BY T H E   T W I N S   


	  T H E   Q U E S T  F O R   T H E   T I M E - B I R D
	  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~




 I - INTRODUCTION

 Based on the graphic novel of the same name, this computer game THE
QUEST FOR THE TIME-BIRD is a marvellous saga whose principal
ingredients are action, danger, suspense, fantasy and magic.

In an unknown world, at a time when wizards and witches cast their
magic spells, you play a series of roles:

ROXANNA: Daughter of Mara the Witch(and perhaps of Bragon the Knight).
Her mother has given her the task of completing the quest. Her weapon
is a scorching whip, woven from the hide of s Borak slain by Bragon.

BRAGON THE KNIGHT: This most valorous and experienced of all knights
has been living quitly on his eastate for many years. Only the arrival
of Roxanna and an interest in the Quest can persuade him to return to a
life of danger and mortal combat. With him goes his trusty war-axe, the
Reaper.

 Roxanna and Bragon will become acquainted with Bulrog and the Unknown
knight. They may very well accompany you if you wish it.

 In the farm-house, Mara explains your task to you. Listen well, For
each detail has its importance.

 9 days remain for you to complete the Quest.


 II - THE GAME SYSTEM

The Quest For Time-Bird is played (using the mouse) by clicking on
pictures, texts and icons.

 Conventions:

 - The cursor is a small symbol on the screen. You move it round the
   screen by moving your mouse.
 - Clicking means placing the cursor on the picture, text or icon of
   your choice and pressing the left button of your mouse.
Pressing the right button you get some information.

In THE QUEST FOR THE TIME-BIRD, the cursor can have different aspects:
 - most of the time, the cursor ir represented by Roxanna's FURRY
   (little animal with long tail);
 - sometimes the cursor transforms itself into 4 arrows. This means
   that by clicking on this spot you accede to another picture;
 - finally, in order to confirm certain actions (that you get with the
   icons), the cursor will take the shape of the corresponding icon.


 III - THE MAP OF THE WORLD OF AKBAR


 Use this map to choose the area (the Land or Kingdom) where you wish
to send the group of characters. Each time you leave a Land, you will
be invited to choose a new destination.

Place the cursor so that the Narrator's stick points to the desired
Land.

Click once (left mouse button), and the group sets off. Every territory
crossed is announced in the window on top of the map. Then proceed the
same way again to arrive to the city symbolized by a white circle. To
enter the city move your group and the stick ontp the white circle then
press the left mouse button.
 You can only accede to territories whose name figure on the map (In
the program the names are in English).

NO MAN'S LAND
 When the group moves from one place to another, it crosses territories
(no man's land) where it may meet other living beings you can
comunicate with.
 To act, click with the left mouse button on the hero of your choice.
The hero goes towards the character. Then the action icons (see
explanation below) will be at your disposal. Choose an action, then
click on the character. Whilst meeting a character you're not able to
return to the Narrator mode.


 IV - THE LANDS

1. Screen Description

 Each Land is a territory that may be explored by the group during the
Quest.
 On the screen, you will see a large background picture. Smaller
pictures, icons and texts will be superimposed on this background. If
only the background picture appears, your group is symbolized by a
circle. Click on the left mouse button on the place, where you want
your heroes to go.

The Background Picture
 In this picture, you will sometimes see people or animals that you can
communicate with or act upon in other ways. You can search through the
picture to discover a certain number of objects. To do this, position
the cursor on the spot you want to search through and press the left
mouse button. If an object appears, it will join the other objects that
you  possess already.

Illustrations
 These vignettes are superimposed on the background whenever an event
takes place. These illustrations can represent one or several people
and animals that you can talk to or otherwise act upon. You can seach
the illustration for objects.

Texts
 You will often see a text window, Its function is to tell you what's
happening and ask you what you'd like to do next (background colour
blue). To answer, you must choose one of the sentences which will turn
white when the cursor is positioned on them.
 From time to time, a character from the story will speak. His or her
head will appear in the text window (background colour orange).

The Group
 To make the "group" window appear, press the right mouse button. Use
this window to select one of the characters present. When the group is
complete, you'llsee the four characters in this window.
 If one of the characters doesn't appear in the window, that means he
or she has gone, or is dead.

The Icons
 They symbolize the different actions you may choose.
   
"THE LIPS".........................speak
"THE FIST".........................attack
"THE DISK".........................load/save the current game
"THE HEART"........................charm
"THE DINNER".......................food

Information Window
 To get information about individualsin the group, this is what you do:
      -  move the cursor onto the character in the group window
      -  then click the right mouse button.
 An information window will be displayed, telling you about the
character.
If the group has collected a number of objects during its travels,
those objects will also appear in the information window. Their names
will appear when you place the cursor on them.


 2.ACTIONS

Movements Of The Group In A Territory
 When you have arrived in a territory, you can indicate to the group
where to go to (in the background picture). Just move the FURRY cursor
and click on the destination spot.

SPEAK - CHARM - ATTACK
 Here is the way to use these three actions:
 - click on the character who is to act (in the Group window or in a
   illustration)
 - click on the action icon of your choice
 - click on the character you wish to act upon, in the background
   picture or in an illustration.

FOOD
 - click on the character who is going to act (in Group window or in an
   illustration)
 - click on the FEED icon.
 - The Information window will display; click on the desired food.

Give An Object
 - place the cursor on a character (in the Group window or in an
   illustration)
 - click the left mouse button
 - click on the object in the Information window
 - click on the character who is to receive the object, in the
   background picture or in an illustration.

 3.SAVING YOUR GAME AND LOADING AN OLD GAME

 You don't have to start at the beginning of the adventure every time
you want to play THE QUEST FOR THE TIME-BIRD. You can save a game
you've started and load that same game next time you play, so you can
pick up from where you left off.

Saving the current game:
 - make sure you've got a clean formatted disk, which we'll call the
   "save disk"
 - click on the "disk" icon
 - follow screen instructions.

Loading a saved game:
 - have your "save disk" handy
 - click on the "disk" icon
 - follow screen instructions.


			HOW TO SUCCEED IN THE QUEST


 It is not an uncommon sight to find adventuregame players sat in front
of their screen hopelessly stuck! But why? Several factors contribute
tothis unhappy state of affairs. Sometimes the situation requires a
weird if not downright illogical solution, others must be played by
typing in orders, and most of them feature a bewildering array of
icons. The end result is that many players give up and grab their
joysticks for a quick "Blast'em out" action game, just to work off some
of the frustration!

 INFOGRAMES has designed this Quest for all those people who want to
PLAY. Whether you are new to adventure-gaming or a hardened veteran,
this game was made specially for you. You'll find it adapts perfectly
to your style of play. If you like a "friendly" level of difficulty, no
problem. Looking for a tough challenge? You got it! You choose and
ENJOY.

THE BEGINNER:
 You can wander from one module to another, admiring he beatiful
scenery, soaking up the atmosphere and getting to know the characters.
Take time to try out the various options. You'll soon notice the
differences between the Marches (lands) of the world of AKBAR.
Gradually, as time passes (and we wish you many hours of enchantment in
the Quest), you'll gather the elements MARA needs for her incantation.
 Our advice to beginners is to avoid going direcly to the GAPING LANDS
or the SAND LIPS. The THOUSAND GREENS is a good place to start.

THE EXPERIENCED PLAYER:
 Anywhere is a good place to begin. You will soon discover that while
the game's heroes can do the same things, it's advisable to choose the
most appropriate character for a given situation.

For Example: THE UNKNOWN KNIGHT isn't the best choice when it comes to
battling mighty enemies annd fearsome monsters! BRAGON shouldn't be
expected to take care of every danger; losing him recklessly could
complicate matters considerably! ROXANNA should be kept clear of
utterly desperate situations, otherwise her mother MARA will react
strongly. Having mastered the most judicious use of your heroes, you
will begin to gather the various elements required by MARA. However
there is one more obstacle facing you: TIME. Remember, 9 days is all
you have to succeed in your Quest.

THE EXPERT:
 Don't forget that time is limited. How fast can you finish the Quest?
Why not try playing with just three heroes, then two? Can one hero
manage the Quest alone?
 Each player will discover that many solutions are possible. Remember
that playing a second time with exactly the same set of actions won't
necessarily lead to success! AKBAR is a living world where the same
actions don't always have the same results. You'll find out!


W A R N I N G   W H A T  C O M E S  N E X T   I S   A   S O L U T I O N

SO IF YOU WANNA DO BY YOURSELF DON'T READ THIS AS THE FIRST THING!!!!!!


 SOLUTION FOR THE MARCH OF A THOUSAND GREENS

 This is the domain of the Wizard-Prince BODIAS. As you will soon
discover, it's the "paradise" of the world of AKBAR. It is famed for
the beuty of tis countryside. The good people of this March live in
harmony with nature, especially the magnificent forest. Their ways are
peaceful and they will never attack our heroes under any circumstances.


A GUIDE FOR THE PLAYER:

Don't attack the gentle folk of Green March, otherwise they'll hide
from you for as lonng as you remain in their domain. You will, in that
case, only be able to meet the OLD ONES OF THE WOODS. Don't attack them
either; talk with them to find out about the various inhabitants of
AKBAR.
 Should the UNKNOWN KNIGHT or ROXANNA charm anyone of the opposite sex,
they will quit the Quest! The lure of blissful love in this green
paradise is irresistible. These two heroes can all too easily fall
under the amourous spell and become unavailable for the rest of the
Quest.

BRAGON will also leave the group for a certain period, if he charms any
Ondines. In that event, the others will have to stay where they are and
await his return. If you leave without him, then BRAGON will be
abandoned in the THOUSAND GREENS and will be lost to the group for the
remainder of the Quest.

If you speak with the inhabitants, they will offer you rest or
refreshment. If you choose to rest, then your heroes will absent
themselves for a short while. Don't forget, though, that time moves on
even when your heroes take a break!

When you meet BODIAS, avoid attacking him. If you attack him, he will
die. And the forest, in perfect symbiosis with the Wizard-Prince, will
also perish. The March of a THOUSAND GREENS will burn and you'll meet
nobody at all!

ROXANNA mustn't charm BODIAS more than once, or he will believe she is
his daughter and escape with her, leaving the group without her
precious presence.


HOW TO FIND BODIAS:

You arrive in this March by the shore, Click on the forest to enter the
realm of the THOUSAND GREENS.

You will then find yourself on the map of the March. Click on the left
side of the screen. Two inhabitants will be displayed. Choose the only
available path.

Following picture: You will find two inhabitants and an Old One of the
Woods. Go right.

Next picture: One way only. There is an Old One of the Woods.
Next picture: You will find two Ondines. Go as far right as you can.
Next picture: One way only. There are two Ondines.
Next picture: There is a Old One here. Go left.
Next picture: There is one way only, over the hut.
Next picture: You meet two inhabitants. Go right.
Next picture: There is a hut here. One way only.
Next picture: Click on the left of the vignette and the Old One.

 You will then find yourself in a picture where you can see a child.
Click on the foot of the tree to pick up a mushroom.

The UNKNOWN KNIGHT or ROXANNA should speak to the child. Otherwise the
child will be frightened and refuse to say anything of importance.
Should ROXANNA or the UNKNOWN KNIGHT speak to him, he will reply with a
multiple-choice question. You must choose the second option: "Very
well, what would you like?"

He will then say:"Thank you for the mushroom. Follow me".

There is only one exit.

After that, you must follow the child's instructions very carefully and
you will find BODIAS. When the child tells you to pass between the two
trees, take the little exit zone well to the left.

Once BODIAS is present, someone must speak to him. BODIAS should ask
three multiple-choice questions in a row. Choose, in order, the first
answer, then the second and, finally, the second again. This will
convince BODIAS of your good faith. He will also believe ROXANNA to be
his daughter.

Next, click anywhere. You'll return to the shore where you'll see a
BALANT in the water. Click on the BALANT to quit the module with BODIAS
willing to read the runes in the Temple of Oblivion. Success at the
Temple will provide you with some very important information: the
location of the Time-Bird.


HINT ON THE SAND LIPS

In order to follow the advice we're about to give, you must first go to
the THOUSAND GREENS to recruit BODIAS. Then go directly to the March of
the SAND LIPS.
 You are advised to have both BODIAS and ROXANNA. You will arrive by
BALANT in the Chasm of Lights. You must click in the bottom left-hand
corner. Don't click anywhere else!
 You will find yourself in a room in the palace of FAUL, Wizard-Prince
of the SAND LIPS. FAUL will be present along with two of his advisors.
Many actions are now available, but you should speak to him once. In
answer to his question, choose the first option, which is to spin a
gripping yarn. He will indicate his satisfaction. Click on the right-
hand door and you will be outside the city, on your way to the Temple
of Obivion. Click on the Temple, bottom-left, and your group will move
to the Temple entrance.
 Go straight ahead.

You'll find yourself in a corridor with a staircase ahead and a stele
(a block of stone) to the right. Click left.
Now you're in a narrow corridor. Click at its far end.
You're in a corridor. Click right (above the stele, not far right).
Once again, a narrow corridor. Click at the far end.
Another corridor. Click on the far end, to the right, in the yellow
zone (WARNING, there are two passages near together).
In the next corridor, click at the buttom.
Click on the left in the new picture. In the corridor, ROXANNA will
call for her Furry and quit group.
BRAGON must now talk to himself. Choose the second answer to the
mutiple-choice question: "If only ROXANNA were here...".

You are once again outside with ROXANNA. Take the same path from the
beginning, to meet up with BRAGON. When ROXANNA and BRAGON are
together, click in the background of the picture. You will see a
funeral chamber, with a pyramid in the distance. Click on the pyramid.
Now you're standing before it. RUNES are engraved on its surface. You
also meet a character you probably already know.

Now BODIAS must be made to speak by one of your heroes. BODIAS will
decipher the RUNES. You will automatically quit this module, running as
fast as your legs will carry you!


YOU MAY OF COURSE TEST THE VARIOUS PATHS AND OPTIONS AVAILABLE IN THE
GAME. TRY SOMETHING DIFFERENT FROM WHAT WE HAVE SUGGESTED. SEE WHAT
HAPPENS! THERE ARE LOTS OF SOLUTIONS LEADING TO EITHER TRIUMPH OR
DISASTER.



     DEFCON and INFOGRAMES wishes you many hours of enjoyment.


               " B Y   T H E   G O D S   O F   G O O D ,


        M A Y   R A M O R   R E M A I N   I N   H I S   C O N C H ! "



            THAT'S ALL FOLKS   TYPED BY THE TWINS OF TRILOGY
 
                      CHECK THIS TRILOGY BBS OUT

                             804-499-2266

  

