

                             Medway Boys & Ikari

                                 - Present -

                                  STORMLORD     

	               97 Lines (3576 Bytes Decrunched)

                    Docs by **  P H A N T O M   L O R D **


                                  SCENARIO
				  --------

This scroll is the last chance we may have before the coming of Badh The
Crone. We the faerie guardians lived in harmony with The Realm, watching
over it protecting all its creatures.

The Realm was famed throughout the land of Llyn Gerrig as a place of
winder, peace and beauty. Word of The Realm reached the ears of the Elwords
and so came Badh the rotting crone to suck The Realm's life force and so
prevent her body decaying further.

She imprisoned my sisters and I. Without us to care for it The Realm will
die.

I have commanded Mael Avin the great eagle to help you. Please hurry
Stormlord before it's too late.

	Rose The Faerie.


Stormlord's mission - free the captured and defend the peace and
tranquility of his realm. Unfortunately, he must repel wicked monarch, but
should he fail, the evil Queen and her dark sovereignity will reign
forever.

                              PLAYING STORMLORD
			      -----------------

The game objective is to release the impounded faeries before time runs
out. Each level of the game has a small number of faeries that must be
released before you can progress onto the next level.

Scattered about Stormlord's world are various objects that must be used
intelligently to free the faeries and help get through certain parts of the
world. To pick up an object or to swap an already held object with one on
the ground, simply walk into it. Only time and practice will grace you with
the knowledge of where to use certain objects and in what order they should
be used, etc.

You will encounter Venus fly-traps, huge worms, flies, dragons and many
more foes on your travels. All of these must be either destroyed or
avoided at all costs.

To gain access to far and remote parts of the world, step on the stone
blocks located around The Realm. Mael Ovin will then swoop down to carry
you to distant parts otherwise inaccessible to you.

                            END OF LEVEL SUB-GAME
			    ---------------------

When all the faeires have been released. Stormlord will take part in a mini
game in order to try and gain an extra life. The objective of this sub-game
is to capture as many faerie's tears as possible within the allocated time.
An extra life is awarded when more than 10 tears have been collected.

Instead of throwing thunder bolts and swords as normal, Stormlord will now
blow a limited number of kisses, represented by red hearts, at the flying
faeries. If a heart should touch a faerie, she will fall in love, drop a
tear for Stormlord to collect, and then fly away. But be quick as the tears
will disolve into the ground quite soon after landing.

                                  CONTROLS
				  --------

The game is controlled by a joystick in the usual joystick port.

To pause the game press the SPACE bar (press FIRE to restart).

To quit the game, press ESC.

                              INFORMATION PANEL
			      -----------------

From left to right the panel sections are as follows:

1) Lives left.
2) Elapsed time represented by a sun that changes to a moon
3) Score
4) Curently held object (When blank nothing is held)
5) 1st digit = faeries so far found
   2nd digit = total amount of faeries to be found on the current level.

                               T H E   E N D .