LEGENDS OF VALOUR:

                            PLAYERS GUIDE

                          (Ameoba@Clara.net)


 This is a small players guide to the game Legends of Valour bu U.S.Gold
 I wrote this because the only help I've ever found for the game was a hint
 telling you to throw treasure at people to get money from them (Which I
 dont think works anyway)



 <STARTING OUT>

 The first thing you should do when you start legends of valour is turn 90°
 to your left and enter the guild of men at arms, here you should spend 200
 groats and get weapons training up to fourth Dann. This makes you nearly
 invincible in a battle.



 <MONEY>

 Money is not as hard to come by as you might think, as long as you have
 good weapons training, you can just walk out into the street, kill a few
 people and grab the loot they drop.

 Trading is not really worth the cash it gets you as to get any decent money
 you will have to go to some lengths to get from one shop to the other.

 Gambling wont make you money.

 Running errands wont make you money, however, if you find something to be
 transported, just pick it up and sell it in the nearest shop, you will
 probably make more than they were offering to transport it.

 Guild wages are very poor.

 If you dont mind cheating then getting a program like "Cheat" "Cheata"
 "GameMaster" or similar programs will allow you to set the number of
 groats you have to anything you want. (several programs are available on
 aminet in the Game/Hint Dir)



 <THE MILITIA>

 The militia never carry money.

 As long as you have full weapons training, you should not find it hard to
 kill one of the militia.

 The militia will randomly arrest you for acting suspiciously.

 If you do get arrested then the portal spell is handy to get you out, when
 you do escape from prison you also dont have to eat until your sentence is
 up!

 If you dont want to be arrested for assault then when you attacking people,
 call them over and then click on the cross swords, clicking on thrust,
 slash or slice to attack people can get you arrested.

 Throwing things at guards can get you arrested.



 <MAGIC ITEMS>

 The Gauntlets of power are upstairs in the armoury.
 The boots of speed are in a room just to the south of the town gate.
 The necklace of protection is in the lizard cage in the institute of
 zoolatry.



 <QUESTS>

 There are far too many for me to write here, so if you are stuck on a quest
 then e-mail me your problem at Ameba@Clara.net .



 <END OF THE GAME>

 If anyone can tell me what has happened to Sven or where old Wilf is locked
 up then please tell me, again, Ameoba@clara.net .

 

