LEISURE SUIT LARRY:

        Hold down 'ALT' and 'X' keys to get past proof of age.  Hold down
        'ALT' and 'D'.  It will ask for a location number.  Enter a number
        form 008-045 (must be a three digit number). This cheat doesn't
        appear to work on the rereleased budget version.


                                   SOLUTION

        The 1st step is to enter the bar, go to the bathroom and read the
        walls several times until you get the password.  Then go to the sink
        and get the ring.  you can (must!) use the toilet if you want.  Go 
        to the bar and buy a whiskey.  Go to the drunk next to the bathroom
        wall and (kick him to wake him) give him the whiskey and he'll give
        you the remote control.  Get the rose too.  Go back into the bar and
        knock on the big door.. when he asks you for the password.. tell him
        "Ken sent me", then enter.  Turn on the T.V. with the remote.  Keep
        changing channels until you find a channel he likes..  he'll move
        from the stairs.  Climb up and voila!  The prostitute:  Don't hop
        into bed with her until you get the rubber.  You just need the candy
        on the bench.  Get it. go out the window, and go to the fire-escape
        ladder.  You'll fall into a dumpster.  Search it and get the hammer.
        Exit the dumpster and go left. Call a cab at the street.

        Now go to the casino and go through the lobby.  Get the card in the
        ashtray.  Now gamble a bit until you have about 250 dollars.  Go
        outside.  Sometime in the game when outside the casino, a guy in a
        barrel will come up and ask you to buy an apple.  Buy it.  Call the
        cab..  tell him to go to the store.  enter the store and buy a
        rubber.  Also get the (magazine and) cheap wine in the back.
        (never enter the cab with the wine..  the cabbie will get drunk and
        kill you) pay for the wine and exit..  Wait for the russian looking
        guy to come from the left. (Ignore the dog) When he comes, give him
        the wine..  not money.  (Look at phone dial number, answer the
        questions)  Once you have the knife go right and show the pass to
        the bouncer at the disco door.  Go in and sit down at the table with
        the lady.  Smile and give her the ring, the candy, and the rose.
        Ask her to dance.  When you finish off with the dancing ask her to
        marry you.  She'll ask you for $100.  Give it to her and meet her at
        the marrage chapel.  It's east of the casino front.  Enter and go up
        to the front.  Type "marry", and you'll get married.  Go up to the
        honeymoon suite.  (fourth floor, door with the heart, push four).
        Knock, and enter. She'll be on the bed, and {not in the mood!?!}
        Turn on the radio and listen to it.  You'll get a number to call to
        get the wine delivered that she wants.  Go to the casino and get
        some taxi fare money.  Go to the phone in front of the store,
        (answer the phone if it rings) call the number and have them
        deliver it to the {honeymoon suite}.  If they say it probably won't
        show up, you screwed up on the typing.  Go back to the casino and go
        to the suite.  Be sure that you have the knife.  Enter and pour the
        wine.  Things will take they're course and you'll find yourself tied
        to the bed. Use the knife and free yourself.  Get the
        rope and leave.  Go to the casino again and using some saving, use
        the dollar and get about $50.  (go to cabaret.  find a seat and 
        sitdown. listen to act.) Once you have it, go to the bar and knock
        on the door again.  Go up the stairs and screw her now that you have
        the rubber.  Remove the rubber after you've used it.  Go out the
        window and this time go to the right of the balcony.  Tie the rope
        to yourself and tie it to the railing.  Type "go window" or (reach
        out) something so your hanging in front of the  window on the right.
        Break the glass with the hammer.  Get the pills.  Pull on the rope
        and untie yourself.  Go down the fire escape and call a cab again.
        Go to the casino and go to the eighth floor.  Talk to the lady at
        the desk until the game tells you that you'll need some medicine or
        something.  Give her the pills.  She'll run off and leave the desk
        unguarded.  Push the button and enter the open doors on the right.
        Enter and go up and right.  When you're in the room with the bed,
        open the closet door.  Enter it and type, "look".  Get the doll...
        (look at doll.  inflate doll.  look at doll. use doll.) then wait as
        you run after it.  When you're near the hottub, (remove clothes)
        enter it.  Look at the lady.  smile, and give her the apple. Things
        will then run they're course, and voila!
