   My Checkers game has lots of features that are useful to play however you night want to.  I have options to play against the computer, in four varying levels that can give anyone a challenge.  You can also play against another human player, or watch the computer play against itself.  You can also select two different checker designs.  Now to give, in detail, what every feature does:

  EDIT BOARD:  This allows you to change the board setup at any time.  You select which checker you want to place, and then place as many of that type of checker on the board as you want (without having to keep clicking on the side of the board to pick up more checkers).  To erase checkers, you can click on the empty space on the side, between the other checkers.  When you are done, click on Edit Board resume doing what you were doing immediately before.

  SHOW THREATS:  You can see if there are any spaces that you can be jumped in, ifyou move there, or if a checker is already threatened.  Such squares are marked in a white box.

   MULTIPLE JUMPS:  To make this game so that doing multiple jumps is optional, and not mandatory, like some other checkers games, I came up with this feature.  All you have to do is remember to use it when making jumps.  You also have to turn it off, since you also have the possibility of making three or four jumps in a row.

  FORFEIT MOVE:  You can give avay a move if you want to, but it may be considered cheating (yeah, right, as if the edit board feature isn't considered cheating).

  FORFEIT GAME:  If you get bored with a situation and want to start fresh, then click here to kill the current game.

  TOGGLE SOUND:  If you get sick of hearing these mind wrenching sounds, as they are often repeated non-stop throughout the game, then you know what to do.

  TAKE BACK MOVE:  This will let you take back up to 100 moves, as this is usually enough to get the game back to the beginning anyway.

  SWITCH SIDES:  If you get jeallous of the enemy side, or if you are winning and want a challenge, then this feature will let you play the other side's situation.

  CHANGE PLAYERS:  At any time, you can use this to go gack to the main control panel and change the players or the checker's designs.

  This game is the full version, and it is only $3.00 Shareware, so it is a great deal for you th get.  I am working on other stuff too, and as you can see, I am not greedy, but this is currently my only source of income, so if you don't like this game, you may like my other game released simultaneously.  This can be spread around and this document, as well as the game and support files must stay intact and together when you are spreading it around.  CheckersConquest is copyright @1993 by Pete W. Storonskij.  If you are a shareware (or freeware) developer, then you can do an even trade of (a copy of) stuff YOU WROTE YOURSELF for a copy of my shareware.  Since you have this full game in your hot little hands, I can't give away a duplicate copy for you. I currently have an e-mail address of: [pws@cse.unl.edu] don't include brackets!   My address is as follows and is not expected to change:

Pete W. Storonskij
200 'A' st.
Lincoln, Nebr. 68502
USA