

                              PacMan 87

                            Instructions

 After Un-Arcing this main file there are a few things you must do BEFORE
you can start playing PacMan 87.

 1- Format a disk and name it "PM".

 2- Make the following directories on the "PM" disk:
  
    S
    Misc
    Animations
    Sounds
    Levels
    
 3- Copy the un-arced files to the 'PM' disk.

 4- Execute the REN file. i.e. from CLI type Execute REN <return>
    (This script file will rename the unarced files and place them into
     the proper directory)

 5- To run the PacMan 87 game with full effect (title screen & notices)
    Execute S/Startup-Sequence.
    i.e. from CLI type Execute S/Startup-Sequence <return>.

 6- You can Install this disk and make it Auto-Boot By transferring the
    necessary files from a workbench disk and 'Installing' the disk.
    Make Sure you have the Math.Trans library on the 'PM' disk if you
    do this. The Program requires it!


                          Game Features:

 1- PacMan 87 was designed to be played just like the origional game. There
    are some MAJOR differences though such as Traps (Fire pits, Stabbing
    Knives, Electric Arcs and Flame Throwers) that must be avoided!

 2- PacMan 87 has 3 different levels of difficulty: 1- Easy (You Think So?),
    2- Medium (Check it out when you get GOOD.) and 3- Hard (Do you feel
    suicidal?!?).

 3- The sounds can be toggled on or off.

 4- The Game keeps track of the Top Ten scorers and automatically sorts and
    prompts for you to input your initials thru joystick movements!
    Look at the Graphic images here.

 5- All of the features are accessed thru Pull Down Menues.

 6- The object of the game? Survive! The more points you get the harder this
    is.

 7- There are 5 levels to play and you can go back and forth to and from
    these levels via the cycling stairways. You will figure it out!

 8- ALL pills must be eaten on ALL levels before you start over with full
    boards.

 9- You do not have to eat all the pills on one level before proceeding to
    another level.

 10- The different levels are different colors and you MUST remember where
     you are at as well as which levels have pills remaining on them Just
     like a Maze.

 11- The Ghosts are unpredictable. Some will come straight at you and others
     will trap you. Keep track if you can.

 12- Pause and Play is selected thru the Joystick Button or PAUSE/PLAY
     gadgets at the bottom of the screen.

 13- Place your joystick in port #2.

 14- To quit the program select the QUIT gadget at the bottom of the screen.

 15- Although this program was set up for a multitasking environment it is
     suggested that you do not do this NOR have any other programs running
     that require sounds or sprites (Other than the pointer). For the
     animation sequences to react properly and smoothly this is required.
     If you do multitask this program it will sleep quietly as well as
     automatically pause when the backgroung gadget is selected.

 16- This program was used as a learning tool for Jim and Myself. Another
     project is in the works that will blow your socks off! More on this
     when closer to completion.

 17- HAVE FUN! and spread it around (EXCEPT TO COMPUSERVE). Do Not Upload
     this program to CIS and if you find this program on CIS please call
     or write me and let me know. CompuServe has this NASTY copyright
     policy, They say they hold the copyrights to ALL programs, etc that
     are uploaded to their service.

                                              Steve Jacobs
                                              GEnie: S.JACOBS
