
GALAGA WARS - Instruction



Features:

-Space-shoot¥em up with 50 frames per second

-6 different levels with big final enemies

-5 different selectable spacefighters with individual arming

-nearly 40 different types of enemies

-continuous storyline

-animated ending-sequence

-100% FREEWARE



Systemrequirements:

The game should run on every AMIGA, provided that you are not totally short
of memory. I don¥t know how much memory it needs, but I think 1MB should be
enough.
To run the game well, your AMIGA shoul have a 68030 processor (or larger).



Installation:

You have to copy the directory "GalagaWars" in direcory on your harddisk, 
you like. But don¥t rename the directory "GalagaWars". Of course you can
also run the game from disk.
If you don¥t want to play the game in a PAL-resolution, you should use
a screen-promotor.



The game:

Galaga Wars is a classical space-shoot¥em up. You control a starship which
has to fight against a large number of enemys. Near by you have to fly 
through six missions which are all connected through a backgroundstory you
get to know while playing. At the end of every mission, you have to 
annihilate a very strong final enemy. For winning levels you get new
and better starships to select. But remember, it is not always the latest
ship the best one. Sometimes you can select between different missions.

As inspiration for this game, different games served me, especially the best 
und most timeless game ever in my opinion: The arcade game "Galaga" which 
came into the videogame-halls in the year 1982.
I like to play modern and complex games, too, but can there be a better game
for five minutes fun (except perhaps "Centipede")? Current games are
often very time-wasting, and if you have won them, they fly into the
deepest corner of the cupboard.



The controls:

You can play the game with the joystick and also with the keyboard. For
the last controlling-method you use the cursor-keys and for FIRE the left
shift-key.
If you can select different ships and missions, do it with UP, DOWN, LEFT
and RIGHT. For confirmation and starting use FIRE.
You can break the game with P. With ESC you get back to the mainscreen and
from there back to the Workbench.



If you have questions or improvements, contact me:

Michael Roﬂkopf
Saarlandstraﬂe 25
44866 Bochum

Tel.: 02327 / 31546

E-Mail: 101.257586@germanynet.de

Special thanks to Marco Christ who has designed some starships for this game!

And now I wish you much fun with the game!

