
		README FOR BOMBER INSINCT V.0.8.7


	I. What is Bomber Instinct ?

   BomberInstinct is a multiplayer-only game. It plays only on a
single computer at the moment, with keyboard and/or joystick. It's
part like Bomberman, because you must kill the other players with
bombs that throw flames vertically and horizontally, but it's much
more strategical because you have to do with the elements of a maze
(arrows, tunnels, teleportations, and many more...), and with the
special powers of each character.
   Remember that the game is still far for being finished : there is
only one music and no (decent) sound effects, and lots of features
aren't yet available, many character animations are missing.
   You are welcome to send me suggestions or ideas at
<metagribouille@netcourrier.com>.

	II. License.

   BomberInstinct is released under GPL. For more details, see the
file GPL in the game directory.

	III. Installation (Linux/Unix).

   To install, you need first to have SDL and SDL_mixer on your
system. They can be found at www.libsdl.org. Then, untar/gz the file
you downloaded by typing "tar -xzf BomberInstinct-*.tar.gz", cd into
the directory created ("cd BomberInstinct"), and type
"./configure". If there is no error, you can now run "make". If
everything has worked, you can now become root ("su root") if you were
not, and type "make install". Just launch the game by typing "bi".

Note : the level editor Nived and the sprite editor Spred can be
launched by typing "nived" and "spred".

	IV. Commands.
		* Game commands

   Commands are the four directions, and two buttons: the first to
drop a bomb, the second to use the special powers of the character. To
use a power, press the second button and left or right (depending on
the power you want to use) simultaneously (of course, you need to have
enough energy. The power icon on the right of your character lights
when you have.)
   The keys can be configured on the option screen : go on the
character's number and press the directions while you are asked
to. You can also press a joystick button to set it for the character.
   Default keys are arrows, right control and shift keys.

		* Useful keys

ESC   -Return to the menu/skip intro/quit.
F1    -Toggle fullscreen.
F8    -Restart the current screen.
F10   -Quit immediately.
Pause -Pause game.
Space -Skip sequence/Continue game.

	V. Story.

   Know that there is a whole story behind the mysteries of the
Labyrinthe and behind each character. But it's not all written, and
not at all translated at the moment.

	VI. Credits.

Programmation: Louis Gesbert (Meta) <metagribouille@netcourrier.com>
Graphics: Manon Gesbert (Mad)
Scenario: Nils Gesbert <gesbert@dptmaths.ens-cachan.fr>
Musics: Jean-Pierre Gesbert

Thanks to Sam Lantiga and all the people who have contributed to
SDL, thanks to Yorick and all the people at #sdl