F40 Pursuit Simulator or Crazy Cars

1.  Getting Started:

- On Amiga 1000, turn on your monitor, then your computer.  
Insert the Kickstart disk (not less than 1.2 version) into the 
internal drive.  The Amiga will read the system from this disk, 
then it will require the Workbench disk.  Now you are in the 
common sequence of all Amiga models.

- On all Amiga 500, 2000, models, insert the F40 disk into your 
disk drive (instead of the workbench disk).

ATTENTION:
You must never remove the F40 disk from the drive while in use.

2.  Commands:

F2 - displays the road map.
F3 - turns on and off the radar detector.
F4 - selects the speed unit (MPH/Km/h).
F5 allows you to end the game if desired.
F6 displays the steering wheel.
F7 selects the control mode (keyboard/joystick or mouse).
F10 stops or starts the game (pause).

The Ferrari is controlled by the joystick or the mouse Commands 
will be interpreted as follows:

UP - accelerate
DOWN - decelerate and brake
LEFT - turn left
RIGHT - turn right
FIRE BUTTON - shift up and down

Mouse Command:
The right button accelerates.
The left ubtton decelerates and brakes.
The two buttons together shift up and down.
The mouse controls the direction.

When your speed doesn't correspond with the cornering radius, a 
360 degree spin can occur.  A 360 spin can be triggered by 
shifting down and cranking the steering wheel at full speed.

You come out of a 360 spin by straightening the steering.  When 
the game end, enter your name next to your score.  You do this by 
selecting the letters one by one with the cursor moved by the 
mouse or the joystick.  Press the FIRE button to store each 
letter.  Once your name is entered, move the cursor to the END 
character and press the FIRE button.  Your new score is now 
stored on the disk.

If you want to skip the opening music, press the FIRE button as 
soon as the music starts.

3.  The Story:
You're at the wheel of the fabulour Ferrari F40 in a race against 
time!

You'll go tearing through four states in search of the quickest 
way to accomplish your mission.  You will encounter problems with 
policemen who don't appreciate the sight of a Ferrari F40 
corssing their state at 200 mile per hour....

But, it's not that easy....

You must plan your route carefully from the map of each state 
displayed on screen.  It will show highways you will speed on.  
Beware, the shortest routes aren't always the easiest as the 
sight and sound of a flashing light will soon make you realize.

Your Ferrari features the lastest radar, which assists you in 
detecting police cars and road blocks.  They have been set up to 
stop you, therefore keep an eye on the highway junctions as you 
may be forced to change your direction!

4.  Your Mission:
At the beginning of the game, your starting position and the 
first destination will be displayed on the map.  You will have to 
consult the map repeatedly for direction information.

When nearing a junction, your on board computer will display the 
highway numbers and the direction arrows of the impending road.  
The map represents the highways of four states.

You can cut through fields, but watch out for telephone poles and 
retaining posts!

The police will send cars and set up road blocks to stop you.  
Avoid them by doing some off-roading or by sneaking through 
barrier gaps.

At the beginning of each stage, the timer displaye the time 
available for this stage.

As soon as you start your engine, the countdown starts.  you have 
to reach the finish within the allocated time.  If it reaches 
zero, your Ferrari explodes!

5.  Your Ferrari Dashboard:

Your F40 has been specially adapted for your mission....  Its 
dashboard represents the following devices:

1.  RPM gauge.
2.  speed unit indicator (Km/h or MPH).
3.  speedometer.
4.  gear indicator: High(H) or Low (L).
5.  digital score counter.
6.  digital bonus counter.
7.  timer/direction indicator: designates the highway number and 
the direction of the intersection (as on the map).
8.  indicates the distance to the closest radar (or police car).
9.  indicates that a radar (or a police car) has been detected.
10. indicates if the radar detector is on or off.
11. indicates in which direction the radar or police car is 
moving.
12  radar detector switch.

6.  Score and Bonus:

Your score increases with the distance covered.

If you complete the stage within the allocated time, the bonus 
will be added to your score.

bonus are earned as follows:

20,000 points at the beginning of the first stage.
40,000 points at the beginning of the second stage.
60,000 points at the beginning of the third stage.  Etc....
10,000 points each time you break through a police road block.

The bonus decreases as soon as you start driving.  The less time 
you use to complete your mission, the more bonus you could earn.

