
 20 September 1988         -=> SKYFOX II <=-       UNISTAR DOCS #1
                                - DOC -
============================================================================

                           CONFLICT  SUMMARY
                           """""""""""""""""
Effective immediately, all Federation Warpwarriors are on Condition Alert.
Our Intelligence reports that a Xenomorph uprising is in progress. We must
assume that their ultimate goal is the conquest of the Terran Federation,
since all attempts to negotiate with the Xenomorphs have thus far failed.

If you'll recall your Academy lessons, this is not the first time that the
Xenomorphs have attempted to subjugate the Federation with unprovoked
attacks on our colonies.

The Federation's amazing Skyfox warplane helped to bring about the
Xenomorph's previous defeat. Once we had driven the Xenomorphs from our
colonies, we contained them in their home star system of Cygnus.

Now it seems they plan to once again to spread terror and tyranny across
the galaxy. To meet this new threat, Federation engineers and scientists
have developed the Skyfox II warp fighter. Every Federation Warpwarrior has
been issued a Skyfox II in order to meet and rebuff each Xenomorph
challenge as it arises.

Your mission in the Cygnus System:

 1. Acquaint yourself with your Skyfox II warp fighter.
 2. Use the Skyfox II and your experience as one of our finest Warpwarriors
    to contain the Xenomorph threat in the Cygnus constellation, and
    protect all Federation interests there.

God's Speed Warpwarrior!


                       SKYFOX II QUICK REFERENCE
                       """""""""""""""""""""""""
Make a backup copy of Skyfox II using Workbench. See "Using the Workbench"
in your copy of 'Introduction to the Amiga' if you need instructions.

            STARTING SKYFOX II ON THE AMIGA 500, 1000 OR 2000
            1. Insert your joystick into Port 2.
            2. Turn on your monitor and computer.
            3. If you own an Amiga 500 or 2000, insert the program disk. If
               you own an Amiga 1000, insert KickStart 1.2, then wait for
               the hand holding a disk to appear onscreen. Insert your
               Skyfox II program disk. The game will automatically load.
            4. When the title screen first appears or after the credits,
               press any key to move to Mission Selection.


            JOYSTICK CONTROL

Flight:     Move joystick forward to dive, back to climb, and left or right
            to change direction of flight. Press the Button to fire the
            neutron disruptors.

Non-Flight: When docked, or when using the Federation computer, use
            the joystick to position the cursor directly over the option
            you want, then press the Button to select.


            COCKPIT CONTROLS

Any key     Exit Demo... Quits Demo to Mission Selection.
0 - 9       Speed....... 0 = stop; 9 = 9,000 KPS (Kilometers Per Second).
A           Autopilot... Toggles autopilot on/off.
L           Location.... Toggles X,Y location on/off.
Control-M   Muffler..... Toggles engine noise on/off.
Control-R   Rescue...... Quits current conflict to Mission Evaluation
            screen of Federation Computer.
Control-S   Silencer.... Toggles all sound on/off.
D           Dock........ Dock when you're in the vicinity of a friendly
            starbase.
Del         Deceive..... Toggles deceptor device on and off.
Enter       HUD......... Toggle HUD targets on and off.
I           Information. Intercepts Xenomorph transmissions (only in
            certain conflicts - check Overview of Possible Conflicts).
M           Mines....... Drops anti-matter mines.
O           Overview.... Displays overview map. Joystick Button sets new
            autopilot destination and closes window.
P           Pause....... Catch your breath, then press P again to continue.
R           Repair...... Functions only when docked at a starbase.
S           Shield...... Toggles defense screens on/off.
Spacebar    Photons..... Fires photon pulse bombs.


            SCAN MONITOR CONTROLS

F1          Puts scan monitor in Long Range Mode.
F2          Puts scan monitor in Medium Range Mode.
F3          Puts scan monitor in Short Range Mode.
F4          Toggles between fore and aft screen views.


                        THE FEDERATION COMPUTER
                        """""""""""""""""""""""
The first thing you'll see when you start your Skyfox II are options
provided by the Federation computer on Terra. Use the Federation computer
to describe, select, and set the difficulty of your missions. It also
evaluates your performance at the end of, or when you abort, a mission. The
following sections describe the options you can select from the Federation
computer.

            PLAY
After highlighting a conflict, choose PLAY to embark on that mission. After
completing or aborting the mission with the Rescue command, the Federation
computer will display the following screens:

Mission Summary Screen - Appears when you complete a mission; either by
winning or failing. Mission Summary rates you in helping to resolve the
conflict; i.e., whether you completed all of your objectives and lived, or
completed only some of your objectives and died. At times, your mission may
end, but you remain alive (either the Xenomorphs have accomplished their
objectives ahead of you, or you just ran out of time). Select Play Again to
retry the mission, Missions to return to the Mission Selection screen, and
Evaluation to see the Mission Evaluation screen.

Mission Evaluation Screen - Appears when you use the Rescue command or if
you pick Evaluation from Mission Summary. Mission Evaluation describes your
degree of success, the number of enemy bases or ships destroyed, and your
mission score. Choose Play Again to retry the mission. Choose Missions to
return to the Mission Selection screen. Choose Level to select an easier or
a harder conflict level.


            DESCRIBE
Gives a brief description of the mission you have highlighted, including
level of play, risk, and mission goal.


            LEVEL
Changes risk level. Choose between Cadet, Wingman, Flight Leader, Squadron
Commander, or Ace of the Base. Cadet is the lowest risk level, and Ace of
the Base the highest. The higher your risk level, the more opposition - and
danger - you'll face.


            SPECS
Shows the technical specifications of your Skyfox II warp fighter. You view
the Skyfox fighter from one of 3 vantage points while reviewing its
specifications.


                         SKYFOX II OPERATION
                         """""""""""""""""""
The following sections describe the capabilities of your new Skyfox II warp
fighter. Please read the operation manual carefully to insure that you know
how to use your ship effectively in the heat of battle.


            SKYFOX II COCKPIT
There is an IFF picture file called, 'SKYFOX II.pic' is on the disk.


            FLIGHT
The following sections describe how to pilot your warp fighter into combat.


            Launch
Press the fire button to launch from a starbase docking bay. Your Skyfox II
is always launch-ready while docked, except during repairs - you must
cancel any repairs currently underway before you can launch.


            Flight Control
Federation engineers have designed the Skyfox II flight control systems to
operate as much like the original Skyfox fighter as possible. Push the
stick forward to lower, and pull it back to raise the nose of your ship.
Move the stick left or right to change direction.


            Navigation
This section describes how to navigate your Skyfox II. You can navigate
manually, or you can select a destination on the overview map and let your
autopilot guide you there. However, the autopilot will not avoid asteroids.
You can either attack and destroy asteroids in your direct path or override
autopilot with manual steering to avoid them. Use the following steps to
program your autopilot:

        1.  Display the overview map.
        2.  Use the joystick to move the cursor to your desired destination
            on the map.
        3.  Press the Button to choose location.
        4.  Set your flight speed.
        5.  Engage the autopilot.

The autopilot will automatically disengage when you reach your destination.
Note: Turning on your autopilot will return your Skyfox II to the level of
the orbital plane in Cygnus. So, if you're flying above the orbital plane,
you'll descend to it. If you're beneath it, autopilot lifts your fighter to
the level of the orbital plane. All starbases and wormholes are located on
the orbital plane.


Using Wormholes: Littered throughout the Cygnus star system are
astrophysical anomalies known as "wormholes." Wormholes are by-products of
black holes, and you can use them to quickly travel between different
points within Cygnus. When you enter a wormhole, you leave our universe and
enter a region that Federation physicists have termed "nullspace." Because
time and distance have no correlation in nullspace, you will emerge from
the "twin" wormhole, possibly many millions of kilometers from your
original location, but only a few seconds later. The map included with your
Skyfox II package shows the locations of all the known wormholes in the
Cygnus star system.

Wormholes appear as blue dots on your scan monitor. As you approach, the
wormhole reveals a gray core, a light blue surrounding mass, and a dark
blue exterior. Reduce your speed to keep the wormhole in sight. Space will
distort as you travel through.

Be prepared for possible ambush when emerging from wormholes in Xenomorph
space.

            Speed
Speed is measured in klicks (kilometers) per second (KPS). Press number
keys 0 through 9 to set flight speed (0 = stop; 9 = 9,000 KPS). Your speed
is shown under the photons register in the cockpit.


            COMBAT
The following sections describe the combat capabilities of the Skyfox II.

            Neutron Disruptors
Disruptors shoot straight ahead, towards anything visible through the HUD.
Use them to destroy enemy ships, and asteroids. The nuclear cells power the
disruptors - if the nuke cells run out of energy, the disruptors are
useless.

            Photon Pulse Bombs
Photons shoot straight ahead when no enemies are present. When an enemy
vessel is visible through the front view screen, the photon locks on and
tracks the enemy vessel. Pulse bombs are the only way to reliably destroy
an enemy starbase. They will also destroy asteroids, no matter their size.
The pulse bombs are useless if the Skyfox II photon tubes are damaged
during battle or by an asteroid collision.

Photons are self-contained and do not use energy from the nuke cells. The
photons indicator in the cockpit displays the number of photons in your
arsenal. The number of available photons will change depending upon your
current mission.

            Anti-Matter Mines
Anti-Matter Mines drop from the rear of your Skyfox II. Mines are timed and
explode when they strike an enemy, or when their time is up. Mines cause
extensive damage to enemy ships.

Mines are self-contained and do not use energy from the nuke cells. The
mines indicator in the cockpit displays the number of mines in your
arsenal. The number of available mines will change depending upon your
current mission.

            HUD (Heads Up Display)
HUD is the Skyfox's automatic targeting system, vital to locating and
destroying enemy ships and starbases. The HUD locks onto the nearest ship
or starbase within medium range. When the HUD locks on, the targeted object
flashes on the scan monitor, while the target ring displays a direction
arrow. Move the joystick in the direction of the arrow to intercept the
target. 

The target identifier readout in the cockpit displays the identity of
objects flashing on the scan monitor and targeted by the HUD. You can
select the various active targets by pressing Return. The HUD, scan
monitor, and target identifier will all change to show the currently
targeted object as you press Return. The target identifier and the scan
monitor both display different targets in different colors:

            White .... Federation and untargeted Xenomorphs
            Blue ..... Friendly Contacts
            Red ...... Targeted Contact

Note: If your HUD is damaged during the combat, or by asteroid collisions,
toggling the fore and aft view can approximate a target finder until you
can dock and repair your HUD  system.

            Deceptor Device
An invisibility device that conceals your Skyfox from enemy radar and
sight. Firing neutron disruptors, photon pulse bombs, or dropping an
anti-matter mine will temporarily disengage this device, thus revealing
your location. When the deceptor is activated, the view through the main
screen is tinted red, and the deceptor device indicator in the cockpit
glows. The deceptor device uses a huge amount of energy from the nuke
cells, so use it only when necessary.

            Shields
Shields absorb damage normally inflicted upon your ship by asteroids and
Xenomorphs. Shields are automatically engaged upon takeoff. Shield energy
is supplied by the nuclear batteries. When the shields are too damaged to
take the full impact of a hit, or the nuke cells are too low to adequately
replenish the shields, the damage is sustained by your ship. Skyfox systems
that may be damaged or destroyed by enemy fire or asteroid collisions are:
neutron disruptors; deceptor device; photon tubes; scan monitor;
KPS indicator; HUD; and FTLC. The shield bar graph in the cockpit shows
your current shield charge. The shield-on indicator in the cockpit glows
when the shields are active.

            DOCKING AND REPAIR
This section describes the procedure you use to dock with a Federation
starbase to replenish your weapons, recharge your nuke cells, and repair
damaged ship systems. Use the following steps to dock with a starbase:

     1.  Reduce speed to about 1,000 KPS and approach the starbase.
     2.  Watch the Short Range Scan. When you're almost to the base,
         use the Dock command.
     3.  If the command is successful, the starbase locks you into its
         docking beam and pulls you towards the base.
     4.  The overview map appears with a starbase selected. Find the
         selected starbase on your map of Cygnus and type in the first
         four letters of the starbase name. The correct code identifies
         you as a Federation ship, and the starbase pulls your ship into
         the docking bay.

Once you are in the docking bay, starbase crews will begin recharging your
nuke cells and reloading your photons.

Use the Repair command to repair damaged systems. A schematic diagram of
your Skyfox II appears on the cockpit main screen. Damaged systems appear
yellow when partially damaged and red when they're not functioning and
require replacement. Undamaged systems are green. Move the pointer onto a
damaged system and press the Button to tell the starbase repair crew to
begin. Repairs take time, and Xenomorphs don't wait for you to finish, so
keep an eye on your scan monitor. Be prepared to abort the repairs if
necessary, and launch to defend the starbase against attack.


                      OVERVIEW OF POSSIBLE CONFLICTS
                      """"""""""""""""""""""""""""""
What follows are summaries developed by Federation tacticians of possible
conflicts that may arise in the Cygnus system. Study them carefully -
because you may have to eventually experience one or more of them first
hand.

            XENOMORPH UPRISING
Xenomorph battlegroups are converging on Federation territory from Xeno
starbase Charlie. Your mission is to destroy both the attackers and
starbase Charlie.

            INCOMING
Infrared scanners have detected incoming Xenomorph missiles approaching
your starbase through Asteroid Alley. Your starbase faces imminent
destruction unless you destroy all of the missiles coming your way. The
scanners may have missed some of the missiles because they have special
radar deflection devices to avoid detection. Destroy the missiles and their
launch point, then return to your starbase.

            INTRUDER ALERT
Xenomorph Intelligence has learned about the existence of the modern
Skyfox II warplane. To try to gain a strategic advantage in Cygnus
territory, the Xenos have sent a battle group to seek out and destroy the
Federation's best weapon. Turn the tables on the intruders, and blast their
attacking fighters out of the Federation's skies.

            GUARDIAN
Federation frigates Starion and Centarus have been badly damaged and are
vulnerable to Xenomorph fighters. Federation Command has selected you to
escort both crippled ships from starbase Madrid to Havana for emergency
repair. Watch out for Xeno attacks from Asteroid Alley, and prove yourself
worthy of the Federation's trust.

            GRIZZLY ENCOUNTER
A Xenomorph convoy is enroute to starbase Grizzly with a secret weapon.
Destroy the convoy before it can reach Grizzly and complete this top-secret
research project. Keep an eye out for diversionary attacks on Federation
starbases.

            DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY
The Xenomorphs have requested a peace conference. Accompany Ambassador
Grace on his way to the Xeno-Federation Peace Summit. Protect the
Ambassador's ship at all costs in the event of a Xenomorph trap.

            WAR!
The Xenomorphs have officially declared war on the Federation. Their
leaders have ordered a huge invasion force to mobilize at starbase Charlie
in preparation for attack. Use all your skill to protect endangered
Federation territory.

            SPY VERSUS XENOMORPHS
The Xenomorphs are readying a secret war plan against the Federation.
Proceed to Xeno HQ, using your Deceptor device as necessary to avoid
detection, and intercept the secret transmission using the Information
cockpit command. Then return to Federation HQ with the information. Beware!
If the Xenomorphs detect your presence, the transmission will be withheld.

            XENOMORPH JUGGERNAUT
The secret Xenomorph war plan is about to come to fruition. They have built
a massive death base near their homestar. Their commanders are readying yet
another, and possibly the final, assault on the Federation. Pulverize this
base before the Xenos attack!

            THE BOONDOCK EXPEDITION
Find the lost starbase Boondockia. Federation experts estimate this to be a
four-day mission. Once you arrive there, attempt to dock with the ancient
starbase (it is not known whether the starbase is under friendly or hostile
domination). Your ship is specially equipped with solar power collectors
which continuously replenish the nuclear batteries. Bring along lots of
supplies to help you explore the furthest reaches of space. Note: Once out
in deep space, use the Deceptor device with extreme caution. The Deceptor
device drains your nukes more quickly than the solar power collectors can
restore them, and docking to replenish your energy supplies may be
impossible in the midst of this expedition.

===========================================================================

   This doc was typed in by -=*> UNISTAR <*=-

   There are IFF picture files of the SKYFOX II control panel and the map
to the game for those that don't have the broken version; on this disk.

