                                WAR MACHINE                                          
                                     BY
                                SUPERBEAGLE

The Story

We have recently lost all contact with our mining installation on the asteroid
XR27B. Evidence suggests that our sworn enemies the aliens are responsible.
If they gain control of this strategically important basethere will be nothing
to stop them swarming accross the entire system, bringing a wave of death and
destruction in their wake.

You have been selected for this very dangerous mission: The alien queen and
her breeders must die.

You will be beamed down to the surface of the planet. Youe main objective is
to prevent the base and its sophisticated techno-military mining equipment
from falling into alien hands. All equipment must be destroyed, and as many
aliens as possible killed. You must also locate four parts of a top secret 
weapon, which is needed to kill the evil queen, these pods are found scattered
around the complex.

The Game

You the player can control your character using a joystick.

	 Jump/climb			    Jump/Fire
   Jump Left | Jump Right 	   Fire up/left | Fire up/right
	    \|/				       \|/
 Walk Left --o-- Walk Right	    Fire Left --o-- Fire Right        
  	     |				       / \
	Climb Down		 Fire down/left   Fire down/right

					With Button Pressed

Certain pieces of heavy machinery can not be destroyed using your standard
weapon. You will have to use grenades to destroy these objects. Grenades
are fired by pressing the space bar.

When climbing a ladder or wall, you must position your character at the base
of the ladder or wall, the push up on the joystick. When playing the game for
the first time, you may find this procedure a little tricky, we suggest you
practice this a few times, before getting stuck into the game.

Objects such as extra lives, ammunition and keys may be found scattered around
the base, these are collected by walkingover them.

The display panel provides the following essential information. 
From left to right as follows..

Pos parts collected (all four pod parts must be found).
Ammunition remaining.
Grenades Remaining.
Protective suit status.
Scrolling information display.
Security droid shield status.
Lives left.
Score.
Time Remaining.

