Impossible Mission II

Instruction Manual

Typed By The Mechanic


Cobra Blue

Classification Ultra

DISTRIBUTION

Field Operations Assets, (need to Know basis only)
Field Operations COntrol, Langley
Electronic Intelligence Operations, Ft. Meade
Joint Chiefs of Staff, Pentagon
Commander, Strategic Air Command, Omaha (EYES ONLY)
Commander, Submarines Pacific, Honolulu (EYES ONLY)
Commander, Submarines Atlantic, Norfolk (EYES ONLY)


1.  Overview: Cobra Blue is a top secret surveillance and counter-terrorist 
operation directed against Professor Elvin Atombender by Field Operations 
Agent Bravo 29.  Elvin, a know psychotic genius, is one of the world's 
leading experts on robotics, computers, and codes.  Elvin is believed to have 
collected a personal financial institutions and transferring funds to his personal bank accounts.  Elvin lives at the top of an immense eight-tower 
complex constructed with his personal funds in northwest Los Angeles near the 
UCLA campus.  Elvin's complex is believed to be staffed entirely by robots 
built to his design.  He received no visitors and, so far, his complex has 
proven to be nearly impossible to enter by agents of this and other police 
agencies
2.  Cobra Blue Phase I: Elvin's tower complex is under constant watch.  All 
activity between his complex and other computers around the world are 
constantly monitored.  Random attempts to break into the tower complex were 
made by our field agents to gather information about the complex's structure 
and contents.  Intelligence reposts indicate that Alvin has spent the past 
four years frying to electronically break into military computer 
installations around the world, and he may be close to succeeding.  In 
addition, it is believed that Elvin is becoming increadingly mentally 
unstable.  He has been muttering threats about destroying himself 
and the world.  If he is detected to begin carrying out these threats, field 
agents will be alerted to implement Phase II through a Flash Alpha
message from Field Operations Control, Langley.

3.  Cobra BluePhase II: Field agents assigned to Cobra Blue Phase II will 
immediately penetrate Elvin's complex, arrest Elvin if possible or kill him 
if he resists, and neutralize his computer system.  THIS MUST BE DONE WITHIN 
8 HOURS.

Elvin is believed to live and work in the control center of his complex 
located in the penthouse of the central tower.  He is guarded by highly 
sophisticated security systems which include mobile robots of sevmr`l types, 
locking passageways between towers and musical sequences.

The field agent assigned to penetrate this complex will be assisted by a 
personal pocket computer which he will be able to use only in the complex's 
hallways.  This computer will track the operative's location, help him 
determine 
if he has completed the proper combination for access to another 
tower, and help him to link together the muscial sequences needed to enter 
Elvin's central tower.

 ____________________________________________________
|                                                    |
| 08/04/88 0122 ZULA COPY 01 OF 01            2      |
|                                                    |
| CLASSIFICATION ULTRA                               |
| CODE GROUP THETA                                   |
| PRIORITY FLASH ALPHA ONE                           |
|                                                    |
| TO:  FIELD AGENT BRAVO 29                          |
| FROM:  FIELD OPERATIONS CONTROL, LANGLEY           |
| RE:  COBRA BLUE                                    |
|                                                    |
| COBRA BLUE ALERT BREAK IMPERATVE REPEAT IMPERATIVE |
| ELVIN BE NEUTRALIZEL VITHIN 8 HOURS ELSE LAUNCH    |
| CODES WILL BE BROKEN AND MISSILES LAUNCHED BREAK   |
| CONSULT COBRA BLUE PHASE II OPERATIONS ORDER FOR   |
| FURTHER DETAILS RE ELVIN AND TOWER COMPLEX BREAK   |
| EXECUTE COBRA BLUE PHASE II IMMEDIATELY BREAK GOOD |
| LUCK AND GO GET HIM BREAK END                      |
| LANGLEY                                            |
| PAGE ONE OF ONE                                    |
|                                                    |
| DESTROY AFTER READING                              |
|                                                    |
| 08/04/88 0123 ZULU                                 |
|____________________________________________________|


OBJECTIVE

To succeed at IMPOSSIBLE MISSION II and to prevent the world from begin 
destoyed, you as the agency's Field Agent must reach several objectives.

fi;st, you must assemble the three-digit security combination for each tower. 
At the same time avoid and fend off Elvin's robots, unsing his own security 
system to help you.

Second, you must locate and open Elvin's safes, and recover the musical 
sequences loked inside.  There are six unique pieces of music and two 
duplicate pieces.

Third, you must tie together these musical sequences into a full melody that 
will open the express elevator door to Elvin's central tower control room.

Finally, you must find the correct computer terminal in Elvin's control room 
that will disarm the missle launch codes before they destroy r-Und the 
world.

You score points by entering towers, exploring rooms, finding passcode mcers, and reaching the central control room.  The sooner you reach the 
control room, the more points you earn.


GETTING STARTED

     Put the disk in (label up) and turn on the machine and have fun!


STARTING PLAY

While the game is loading, you will see an outside view of Elvin's tower 
stronghold on the screen.  When loading is complete will see your agent 
inside the elevator in a radom tower of the d8onghold.  The display on the 
bottom of the creen is your pocket computer.


Controls

o  In the elevators: Push the joystick FORWARD or BACK to go up and down.
   Push the joystick RIGHT or LEFT to enter corridor.

o  In the Corridors: Push the joystick LEFT or RIGHT to move along the
   corridor.  Running off the edge of the screen will take you into a room or
   another section of corridor.

o  In the rooms: Push the joystick LEFT or RIGHT to move in either direction.
   In you press the FIRE BUTTON, your agent will do a forward flip for
   leaping over robots, jumping up to higher ledges and somersaulting over
   gaps in the floor and over low walls.  Pulling the joystick BACK will put
   your agent in a crouching position.  He needs to be in this position to
   lay a time-bomb.

o  On lifting and sliding platforms:  If you are standing on a striped
   lifting platform (you can see the vertical track in the wall), push the
   joystick FORWARD or BACK to go up or down.  If you are standing on a
   striped sliding platform (you can see the horizontal track in the wall)
   push the joystick FORWARD or BACK following by LEFT or RIGHT to move the      platform.


GAME PLAY

As you expore Elvin's tower complex, you can check your location and the 
rooms you have explored with your pocket computer.  The pocket computer's 
display appears at the bottom of your screen anytime your agetn is in a 
corridor or elevator.  A map of the current tower and connections to two 
neighboring towers shows in the center of the display.  A dot of light shows 
your locations in the tower.  Any room you have entered appears in back.  An 
overhead view of the tower complex appears to the left of the map display on 
the pocket computer.  It too, has a light showing your location as well as a 
lighted display of your current tower number.


Searching for Codes

Search as many objects in each room as possible.  These objects range from 
automobiles in Elvin's garage to athletic equipment and lockers in his 
gymnasium tower.  Don't overlook house plants and pictures on the wall 
either.  Search each object by standing directly in front of it and pushing 
the joystick FORWARD. The word "Searching" will appear a box you will also see a horizontal time line indicating how long the search will take.  You must continue to hold the joystick FORWARD  until the time line disappears.  If you search is interrupted 
for any reason (like a robot bearing down on you), you can go back to the object and resume searching where you left off.  Each object disappears after it is searched.

One of four things will appear above your agent's shoulder when finished 
searching an object:

o  The word "Nothing", indicating you've drawn a blank.

o  A passcode number.

o  A security terminal command icon.

o  An extension of time.


Using Security Terminals

You can use the security terminal commands you have collected at any security 
terminal in Elvin's complex.  These terminals are usually located near the 
entrance inside each room.  They like televisions sets with darkened screens 
facing toward you.

To use a security terminal, move directly in front of it and push the 
joystick FORWARD.  The security terminal screen will fill your display.  
Security terminal command icons and the number you have available appear on 
the screen.  These include:

     Life Platform symbol - resets vertical and horizontal lift platforms

     Platform symbol - moves the floor segments left or right

     Electric plug - temporarily deactivated robots

     Light bulb - turns on lights in darkened room (can be used in any room
                  within a tower to light other rooms in the tower)

     Time bomb - arms time bombs that can be placed by agent to blow up safe
                 (pull BACK on the joystick and press the FIRE BUTTON to
                 place the bomb). The bomb explodes a few seconds after it is
                 placed allowing the agent to go back to the safe and search
                 for pieces of music.

     Mine - arms mine that can be placed by agent.  Mine explodes whenever
            anyone including field agent makes contact with it.  It blows a
            large hole in the floor that the agent can only cross with a
            leaping somersault.

Push the joystick LEFT or RIGHT to move among the command icons and press the 
FIRE BUTTON to select whichecer one you want to see.


Pocket Computer

Your pocket computer is an amazing device that not only locates you in 
Elvin's complex, it also helps you assemble the passcode that lets you move 
from tower to towel), plus a built-in tape recorder, you put together the 
musical sequence you need to gt into Elvin's central tower.  Your computer 
also shows you how much time you have left before Elvin destroys the world.

To activate these last two functions, you must stand in a corridor or 
elevator and press the FIRE BUTTON.

     Note:  You can't use the pocket computer in any of the rooms.
            Pressing the Fire button in a room will make some functions appear.
When you activate the functions, a hand appears near three buttons at the 
bottom right of the screen.  The right button has three numbers on its 
surface.  The center buton has the drawing of a tape cassette deck.  The left 
button has the word "OFF" written on it.  Above these buttons you will see 
three sets of arrows and buttons.  You can move the hand with the joystick.  To select a button, move the hand on top of it and press the FIRE BUTTON.  When you select the number button, the complex map disappears and three windows appear in its place.  T
his is where the three-digit passcode colors the neighboring towers is assembled.  Move the hand to the up and down arrow keys and select one with the FIRE BUTTON.  Numbers you have found in the tower appear in the windows to the left.  There may be dupli
cates.  When you find a correct number, the passcode is found, the "Complete" indicator below the window now is on, move through the security access doors into a tower next door.

When you have collected one or more musical sequences from Elvin's safes, you 
can play them on your pocket computer.  Move the hand over the cassette 
nutton and press the FIRE BUTTON.  A tape cassette deck complete with 
standard play, fast forward, and reqind controls appears in the center of 
your pocket computer.  Rewind, the press play, and any musical sequences you 
have collected will play.  Listen carefully because there will be duplicates.  A digital tape counter helps you keep track of where you being a 
musical sequence.  Use the readout to help you record a new sequence over a 
duplicate piece of music.  When you collect as a song, you can enter the 
express elevator to Elvin's control room.

You MUST record a musical sequence before you leave a tower because you can't 
return to a tower once you've left it.  If you forget to record the music in 
each tower's safe, you can't win the game.  However, you might get really 
lucky and STILL win the game IF the music you forgot in a tower's safe is a 
duplicate.


Elvin's Express Elevator

You can find doors to Elvin's express elevator between the inter-tower 
security doors in either the underground passageways or the aerial hallways.  
Stop in front of the express elevator and push your joystick FORWARD.  You 
will enter the elevator and reappear in Elvin's control room.


Elvin's Control Room

This is an extremely complex room filled with robots.  It has security 
terminals so you can use your collected security commands to help you.  
Notice the three terminals in the center the room.  One if these can be 
used to deactivate the missile launch control codes and save the world.  The 
other two will kill you.  Select a terminal, stand in front of it, and push 
your joysticj FORWARD.  If you are lucky, you will deactivate the control 
codes and confront Elvin.


Scoring

A scoreboard will appear if you successfully end the game, if you die too 
many times when you are in Elvin's control room, or its time runs out.  You 
earn points for entering each room, collecting objects and numbers, entering 
each tower, and for completing the mission.

Save Game

     - Refer to The Quick Reference

Starting a New Game

     - Refer to The Quick Reference

No Way Out

     - Refer to The Quick Reference


Appendix A

Elvin's Tower Complex


Elvin's tower complex is located in the Sawtelle District of Los Angelese on 
the grounds of the former Veteran's Administration Hospital five miles west 
of UCLA.  Elvin purchased the grounds five years ago from the U.S. Government 
during an attempt by the government to balance the federal budget.

He has constructed a nin-tower complex consisting of eight towers surrounding 
a core tower.  Each tower includes from four to six rooms, and each has a 
special function.  These functions include parking for Elvin's vast fleet of 
motor vechile{,!living quarters (Elvin 9-portedly never sleeps in the same 
room two nights in a row and likes a lot of space), food service including 
automated kitchens (Elvin considers himself a gourmet although his tastes run 
towards M&Ms and Fruit Loops), sports and excerise areas, warehousing, 
executive office suites, and of course massive computer systems.  There are 
believed to be up to 64 different rooms in the eight surrounding towers.

The core tower includes the heart of Elvin's computer system and his control 
center located in the tower's penthouse.  There is a flat roof area outside 
the penthouse where an operative could arrange for an emergency helicopter 
pickup.

High speed elevators run up the sides of each tower except the core tower.  
They open on to hallways leading the way to its two neighbor towers with both underground passageways and aerial hallways connecting at the upper levels.  Security doors prevent access between towers unless you have the correct passcode. The central tower
's control room is reactor with a high speed express elevator.  Doors to this elevator are located in both the underground passages and the aerial hallways between towers midway between the inter-tower 
security doors.  The penthouse control room is the only room int he central 
tower accessible to outsiders.  The balance of the structure is packed with 
Elvin's mainframe computer system.

Three computer terminals are located in the center of the penthouse control 
room.  One of these controls Elvin's main code-cracking computer where he 
will attempt to access the world's missle launch control codes and 
annihilate the planet.  This terminal must be reached and deactivated by you 
to prevent missile launches.  The other two are dummiess hotwired to 2,2000 
volts.  Any agent repeat NOT been able to determine which terminal is real 
and which are deadly dummies.  Good Luck!


Appendix B

Robots


Elvin's robots are the major component of his security system.  There are six 
different types you will find roaming the rooms in his stronghold.  these include:

1. The basic security sentrybot.  These are the most common and the most
   deadly if you too close.  Sentrybnds may be found in any room.  They are
   each approximately 1.5 metters high and are armed with a high voltage
   plasma gun.  The sentrybots use infrared photcell sensors to detect human
   body heat even in darkened rooms anywhere to the robot's front.  Sound and
   whether the robot can "see" the target with his infrared sensors or not.

   A sentrybot will fire its plasma gun anytime it detects a human within six
   feet.  Sentrybots never miss a the short range and humans always die from
   the weapon's massive electrical discharge.

   Fortunately, a human has one major advantage over any robot - mobility.
   Sentrybots are propelled by linear induction magnetic transport systems
   embedddt int he floors and platforms of eVn room.  Sentrybots, therefore,
   usually cannot move more slowly than a man can be dodged with a well-timed
   somersault.

2.  Minebots.  These are small robots encountered in rooms in any Tower.
    They crawl around rooms and lay mines and  can easily be avoided unlike the     mines a player can lay, they have no effect on the floor.

3.  Pestbots.  These are relatively harmless but annoying small robots that
    may be encountered in any tower.  They constantly ride tany towvelylife platforms
    and mess up a player's lift platform strategy.  They are not dangerous.

4.  Squatbot.  May be encountered in any tower.  Squatbots are small robots
    that squat on the floor like a turtle.  With good timing, an agent can
    step on a squatbot pause and use it as a step.     However, every few     seconds, the squatbot is acivated and will rise up.  (if the agent isn't        careful, hemay be smashed against a ceiling.)

5.  Bashbot.  This is the second most common robot type and is found in all
    towers.  Shaped like a miniature bull the bashbot detects human
    intruder and instead of zapping him with an electrical charge, it
    attempts to shove the intruder off the edge of the nearest platform or
    into a nearby wall. 
6.  Suicidebot.  These may be found in any tower.  A suicidebot senses when a
    man is close to its death and tries to take the man with him.



Appendix C

Elvin's Psychiatric ProFile


Subject: Elvin Atombender
Sex: Male      Age: 62
Height: 5'4"
Weight: 120 lbs.
Hair: No
Eyes: Watery blue, wears wire rim glasses
Distinguishing Traits:  Elvin has developed into a high tech hermit who hates
                        people and animals and can onyl relate to M&M's,
                        Fruit Loops, anchovy pizzas, Diet Pepsi, and
                        computers.

Childhood background:  Elvin was a Momma's boy.  his mother loved him and 
believed he could do no wrong.  He was a skinny, sickly kittle kid who 
loathed sports but loved mathematics.  He seldom caused any problems and 
spent most of his time at home gaping into his computer screen.  He 
occasionally caused trouble with his modem, such as the time when he broke into
the school district's mainframe and raised his P.E. grade to an "A", and the 
time he broke into the phone company's billing computer and charged his 
bill to anothers for a five-hour call to Afghanistan (because his mother mistakenly served him Diet Coke instead of Diet Pepsi during a midnight pizza feed).    Elvin has only just begun.

Turning Point:  Elvin survived high school despite encounters with numerous 
bullies.  He entered the computer science schOo4 of a prestigious West Coast 
university and immediately immersed himself in the computer lab where he 
began building Elvin, Jr., a self-teaching, self-replicating artificial 
intelligence program.  Junior was his child and his passion.  He spent so 
much time in the computer lab that he barely earned his undergraduate degree.  
Only when he realized that he had to go on to graduate school if he were to 
keep working on Junior, did he reluctantly spend time on elective courses as 
The Economics of Broccoli Farming and Intermediate Urdu.

One night, after nearly eight year in the university's computer lab, Elvin 
has almost finished building junior.  He only has ten more lines of code to 
wire, and only two more bugs to shake out of the program, and his child would be functional but the lights literally went out as the power failed.  Elvin's computer crashed, and his program vaporized into nothing.  Elvin has made on fatal mistake -- he ne
ver backed up his program, saying the floppy disks were for wimps.  All he had left was some hard copy.  

Elvin's mind snapped.  He vowed he would complete his docorate, someday rebuild his program on a grander scale than ever, and take voer the computers of the world.  Then he would have his revenge, especially against the electic utility companies.  The wor
ld would repay him for his lost child.

Like many people with a grand obsession, Elvin was able to bide his time.  He 
received his doctorate, became a distinguished professor and a renowned 
expert in computers and robotics, and then disappeared.

He has now resurfaced after five years of living in his fortess-like tower 
complex built with funds plundered from the international financial computer 
network.  he is believed to be extremely paranoid and dangerous and may be on 
the verge of becoming the world's first large scale computer terrorist.  He 
should be approarched with extreme caution.




Quick Reference - Command Card

for the Apple II Series

Typed By The Mechanic

Use the Impossible Mission II instruction manual for loading and general 
game-play instructions.  Read this command card for keyboard controls and 
variations from the manual for the Apple II version of the game.


Keyboard Controls

Press the keys shown in the diagram in place of joystick moves. (The arrows 
indicate joystick moves.)

                               U   I   O
                                \  |  /
                              J -     - L
                                /  |  \
                               N   M   ,

Open or Close Apple key = fire button


Additional Keys

o  If you find yourself in a position with no way out, press ESC.  This
   returns you to where you started in the current room.

o  When in the hallways, press P to pause the game.  Press any key to resume
   play.

o  Press Control R to start a new game.

o  Press Control S to toggle the sound on and off.
