                                SKID ROW

                                presents

                             ROCK A DOODLE
  
                                Capstone

                              USER'S MANUAL

Print  

To choose this option, simply click on it or press P.

Note: Make sure you setup your printer correctly with Workbench before
using the coloring book.

Erase

Use this option to remove all of the characters and colors from a 
background.  The image will be restored to the original black and white
art.  To make this selection, click on Erase or press E.

Quit

Click on this option (or press Q) to exit from the program.

Undo

This option is for when you make a mistake.  If you have just put color
where you didn't mean to, you can choose this option to "undo" the last
thing you did.  Click on Undo, or press U to make the selection.

Picture Name

The box on the lower lefthand side of the screen displays the name of the
current picture.

Backgrounds

Click on this option, or press B, to access the background pictures.

Figures

Click on this option, or press F, to access the Rock A Doodle characters.
You can then select a character to place on a background.  See the section
on Creating and Coloring a Picture for instructions on how to select
characters.

Color Palette

The squares of color on the lower righthand side of the screen are your
color palette.  To choose a color, position the pointer over the desired
color and click.

Choose Color from Screen

If you want to use a color that has already been put on the picture, you
can easily select it as the current color.  Place the pointer over an
area of the desired color (on the picture) and press the C key on your
keyboard.

Creating and Coloring a Picture

Now you are ready to create and color your first picture.  Use the left
and right arrows to move through all of the available backgrounds until
you find the one that you want to use.  Now click on the Figures button.
The program will display the first Rock A Doodle character.  Use the left 
and right arrows to move through the characters until you find the one 
that you want to use on your background.  Once you have the character on
screen, simply click the mouse button.  The character will now be picked
up.  Now, click on the Backgrounds button to switch back to your 
background.
    
You will now have the selected character 'floating` on your background.
Move the character to the desired position on the screen and click to
place it.  Remember, you can press F1 to make the menus disappear when
placing a character.  You can add as many characters to a background as
you would like.  (Note: The more characters you place on a given 
background, the slower the program will run.)  Once you have your 
characters on your background you are ready to color your picture.

Now, choose your first color.  Move the pointer over an area on the
picture that you want to fill with the selected color.  Once you have
the pointer positioned, click the mouse button.  The area of the picture
that you are pointing to will fill with the current color.  If you color
the wrong area, you can always choose Undo.

Continue selecting colors and painting them onto the picture.  Remember,
once you have selected a color, you can press F1 to make the menus
disappear so that you can get to the rest of the picture.

You do not have to finish a picture all at one time.  The program will
remember your characters and colors so that you can finish the picture
at another time.

Copying Picture Files

To enter the coloring contest, you need to copy the program disk and 
send the copy in.

                                ADDENDUM 
                       COMPUTERIZED COLORING BOOK 
                                 AMIGA

LOADING

Insert the Coloring Book disk in your disk drive and turn on your computer
(If Workbench is already loaded, simply insert the disk in a disk drive).
Double-click on the disk icon when it appears.  Now, double-click on the
Coloring Book icon to run the program.

PALETTE ADJUSTING

A new feature has been added to allow you to individually set each palette
color.  To adjust a color, select it as the current color and then click
on the MIX button.  Three color sliders will appear (Red, Green and Blue).
By moving these sliders up and down you can change the current color.
Click on OK to accept the change.

SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW 

