VIRTUAL GRAND PRIX 2 - MorphOS Version

1) END USER LICENSE and LEGAL NOTES

You (the end user) are hereby granted a free, non-exclusive license for personal use of the Virtual Grand Prix 2 game for MorphOS. However, if you think that the software deserves it you can make a small donation from www.virtualgrandprix2.com for it; money collected this way will be used to port additional developments or sequels to MorphOS.

Virtual Grand Prix 2 is NOT public domain and is (c) copyright by the Developer. You are NOT allowed to redistribute the game's archive(s) and/or charge for them.

Despite the Developer has made many efforts to get the software perform substantially as intended, it's technically impossible to guarantee that such software will work flawlessly on any possible hardware, under different OS versions/revisions and in combination with other software concurrently running or however installed on your system. So, the Virtual Grand Prix 2 game (VGP2 from now on) is provided "AS IS", without warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied, including, but not limited to, the warranties of quality, performance or fitness for any particular purpose. All risks as to the results and performance of the VGP2 product are assumed by you. Should VGP2 prove defective, you (and NOT the Developer) assume the entire cost of all necessary servicing, repair or correction. Furthermore, the Developer does not warrant, guarantee, or make any representations regarding the use of, or the results of the use of, the VGP2 product in terms of correctness, accuracy, reliability, c

urrentness, or otherwise; and you rely on the program and the results solely at your own risk. In no event will the VGP2 Developer be liable for direct, indirect, incidental or consequential damages resulting from any defect in the VGP2 product even if it has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

2) INSTALLING  and RUNNING THE GAME

In order to install VGP2 on your system you need the VGP2 main archive (zip) and the MorphOS executable archive (lha) - if you're reading this file you've already got the latter. Both archives can be downloaded free of charge from the official VGP2 site www.virtualgrandprix2.com.

a) Unzip the VGP2 main archive into a location on your HD where you would like VGP2 to be. Pay ATTENTION to the fact that some unzip utilities under MorphOS are broken and don't correctly set the file access permissions, in that case unzip the archive with a different program or under a different OS
b) Place the VirtualGP2 executable and the VirtualGP2.info icon file contained in the MorphOS executable archive into the drawer created in phase a)
c) Double click the VirtualGP2 icon. You can start the game from the shell too, make the drawer created in phase a) the current working directory and run the VirtualGP2 executable.

Pay attention to the fact that Virtual Grand Prix 2 requires the latest version of TinyGL.library (you MUST install it before running the game, otherwise weird things may happen...)

3) UNINSTALLING THE GAME

Simply delete the drawer containing VGP2.

4) DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE MorphOS VERSION AND OTHER VERSIONS OF VGP2

There are two main differences between the MorphOS version and, specifically, the MacOS and Windows versions of VGP2:

a) network doesn't work under MorphOS
b) force feedback doesn't work under MorphOS

Network doesn't work because VGP2 needs OpenPlay. Should OpenPlay be ported to MorphOS, it'll be possible to add network support for VGP2.

The MorphOS version of VGP2 does support HID-compliant USB devices; however, many Joysticks and Steering Wheels are non-standard HID devices and use proprietary protocols, so they won't work under MorphOS USB stack (Poseidon).

5) SUPPORT

The best way to get support if you're experiencing any problem with VGP2 is to join the official Virtual Grand Prix 2 forum on RaceSimCentral (follow the "forum" link on www.virtualgrandprix2.com); there you'll already find a big knowledge base about "common" problems, and you'll have the possibility to drop a note about yours.

5) CREDITS

The Developer would like to thank the following people (in no particular order) without whose aid probably VGP2 for MorphOS wouldn't ever have been a reality:

Genesi and Freescale for the free PegasosII development system
Andrea "Guruman" Maniero
Michele "060" Magliocca
Michal Wozniak
Chris Hodges
...and the whole MorphOS community!

