Welcome to the Fantasy World of Blood Ball! v1.0       September 1992

Introduction

 Take orcs, skaven, slann, or elves and create a sports team. Armor them
with spiked helmets, shoulder plates, and armbands. Place them on a
concrete field and give them a single, innocent ball. Tell them that
whoever can get the ball to the opposite end of the field three times will
be given the opportunity to eat their opponents. Also tell them that they
may do anything to achieve this goal. Killing is encouraged, and thoroughly
enjoyed by the fans as well as the players.
 Once they know all this, have someone say "GO!"

Snotling toss and player placement

 At the beginning of the game, the largest referee will twirl a snotling
into the air. If he survives the fall, the home team receives the ball
first. If he dies, the away team will be so honored. 

 After a team has been declared the winner of the snotling toss, they will
be requested to place their players on the field first. The first eleven
available players will be the starters. The black bar at the bottem of the
screen will display the name, race, position and statistics of the player
to be placed on the field. Place these players on the right or left side of
the field, as directed by the command bar. They must be placed beyond the
first wide line from the skull marker.

 When all eleven starters have been placed, the opposing team will
similarly place his players on the opposite side of the field.

 Once both teams have been placed, the winner of the toss will be asked to
select the initial ball carrier. By clicking on any player with the mouse
button, a 'stat card' will be displayed with all the necessary info on that
player. Clicking inside the card will display other pages of information.
Such as special skills, and individual in-game statistics.
 Clicking outside of the card will abort this player and allow you to
select a different player.
 Upon deciding which player should start the game with the ball, press the
mouse button inside the black command bar.

 When this is completed the game will begin.

MOVEMENT

 Each player has two movement scores. The first is MA (Movement
Allowance). A player may move the number of squares indicated, only
restricted by the border of the field and occupied squares.
 The second is SP (Sprint) A player may sprint as long as he does not try
to sprint into a TACKLE ZONE. A Tackle Zone is any square adjacent to an
opposing player.
 There are two ways to move. Either click on the square you wish the player
to move to, or use the numeric keypad as a directional parsor. (For
Example: The 8 key will move the player one square up, the 9 will move 
diagonal up and right.)
 Players must move one square at a time. This is imperitive as tackle zones
must be avoided when attempting to sprint.
 
 Movement ends when both MA and SP are zero. 
 The player's turn may also be aborted by pressing '5' twice, or 
double-clicking on the player with the mouse. 
 By pushing 'u' or the -Undo- option on the command bar, the player's MA & SP
will be restored, and he will be replaced at the position where his turn
began. 
 By pushing the Space bar or clicking the -Skip- option on the command bar, 
the player's turn will be skipped. After all other standing players have 
been moved, aborted, or skipped, you will be prompted to move the player
originally skipped. 

BLOCKING

 In the middle of a move, or at the end of the move, a player may attempt
to block an opponent. Press 'b' on the keyboard or the click the -Block- 
option on the command bar. The program will prompt you with, "Who do you
wish to block?"
 Either click on an opponent adjacent to your player, or use the numeric
keypad to select your victim. At this time, pressing '5' or clicking on
your own player will abort the block and return you to the movement option.
 Once a victim has been selected, a number will be printed in the command
bar. This is the number necessary for a fully successful block. It 
is calculated by comparing the blocker's and the victim's ST (strength)
 The computer will roll two 6-sided dice. If the number is the same or 
higher than the necessary number, the victim will be knocked down. If 
it rolls one less, both the blocker and the victim will be knocked down.
If it rolls a bit less, nothing will happen. (Stand off) And, if bad luck
strikes, and it rolls a very low number, the victim will remain standing,
and the blocker will be knocked down.
 Once again, you may abort before you attempt a block of this type.
Pressing '5' or 'n' on the keyboard or clicking the -No- option on the
command bar will abort. 
 Upon selecting -Yes- or any other key on the keyboard, the program will
prompt you with the needed number and an arrow. This cannot be aborted.
Press any key or the mouse button, and the computer will roll the dice.
 If any players are knocked over, they will be given an armor check. See
the section on ARMOR CHECKS for more information.

TACKLING
 
 If another player has the ball and you wish to tackle him, follow the same
procedures as outlined in the BLOCK section. There is NO Tackle option, the
program will automatically determine whether or not a player should be
blocked or tackled. The only difference between block and tackle is that
the AG (agilities) of the blocker and the victim are compared. Gang Tackles
are not possible.

GANG BLOCKING

 If two or more players are adjacent to a single victim, the group may
attempt to gang up on him. For this, all the strengths of the attackers are
added together before being compared to the victim's.
 Select 'g' or click -Gangup- on the command bar. The first option will be
given to select the chosen victim. This is done the same as the block
option.
 Once the victim has been chosen, the program will ask for all assisting
players for the gangup. Assuming that a player has not already blocked this
turn, you may select who will gang up by clicking on the player with the
mouse, or using the numeric keypad as if it were centered on the VICTIM,
not the initial blocker. You may continue to select as many gangup players
as there are adjacent to the victim. Once all players have been selected.
Press the space bar, or click inside the command bar.
 All the above can be aborted at any time by pressing the '5' key or
clicking on the initial blocker.
 Just as in standard blocking, the necessary number will be given,
followed by an arrow. Press any key or click the mouse button to see the
results. It is possible for ALL players to be knocked down. In that case,
the program will armor check all players until complete.

STRIPPING

 Stripping the ball is an option if the player you wish to use to tackle
the ball carrier does not have a high AG (agility). 
 You may attempt the strip the ball from the player by comparing strengths
instead. Stripping the ball is done similarly to blocking, the only
difference being that a player cannot be knocked down while attempting to
strip.

FOULING
 
 If yer dirty enough, you can try to hit a player while he's down. Either
click on the -Foul- option, or press the 'f' key on the keyboard. 
 Just as in block, you will be prompted with, "Who do you wish to foul?"
Select the victim as you would if you were blocking.
 The command bar will then tell you who's strength is highest. It is very
difficult to successfully foul a down player if his strength is higher then
the fouler. 
 A successful foul will result in an extra turn of recovery/standing up, or
a possible serious injury.

END OF TEAM TURN

  If a team has possession of the ball at the end of its turn, a final
option will be given to allow the ball carrier to throw it, or hand it off.

Throwing

  Select 't' on the keyboard, or click the throw option on the command bar.
The program will prompt you to select a receiver. There will be a slight
pause, and then the screen will scroll with the mouse. As you move the
mouse, the command bar will give an indication of the distance you are
trying to throw the ball. The longer the throw, the more difficult. You may
not throw the ball to an adjacent player or yourself. Clicking there will
abort the throw and return you to the End of Turn menu.
  Click on the player you wish to throw it to. The program will compare the
thrower's TS (Throwing Skill) and the receiver's CL (Catching Level)
  The higher these numbers, the more likely the pass will be successful.
  Press any key or the mouse button to throw the ball. The ball will move
across the screen and into or out of the arms of the receiver. 
 
Handing Off
 
  At the prompt "Who do you wish to hand off to?" Select an adjacent team
member with the mouse or the numeric keypad. A final request will ask you
if you are sure you wish to hand it to this player. Abort by pressing '5'
or 'no' on the command line. No roll is necessary. Hand offs are automatic.

BEING KNOCKED DOWN

  If a player is knocked down, he will be appear 'face-down' on the field.
(His head will be in the lower right corner of his square)
 At the beginning of either TEAM TURN, all players that are 'face-down'
will be placed 'face-up' (The player's head will be in the upper right
corner of his square)
 Then, at the beginning of the next Team turn, all players that are
'face-up' will be stood up and may resume normal movement. 
 
OTHER FUN STUFF

Armor Checks

  If a player is knocked down, he must immediately be given an armor check.
The computer will roll two six-sided dice. If the result is less than his
armor value, he will remain on the field. If the result is greater than
his armor value, then he will be apt to injury.
  The type of injury will be determined randomly upon failing an armor
check. The player can be STUNNED, which means he will be unavailable to
play until after the next touchdown is scored. If the player is KNOCKED
OUT, he may or may not recover after the next touchdown is scored. If the
player is INJURED, he will be out for the rest of the game, and if he is
KILLED, well, you know...

Substitutions

  If a player does wind up being taken from the field in some way, reserve
players may be brought in (assuming you have any left!)
  At the beginning of the team turn, the computer will count all the
players on the field. If less than 11 are counted, you will be prompted
with, "Do you wish to add any players?"
  Pressing 'y' or selecting -Yes- on the command bar will bring up a roster
list of your team. An abbreviation of their name, race, position, and
status will be given. Select a player that is listed as RESERVE. 
  A football card will appear with the stats of this player. Click on the
card to review his game statistics, skills, and values. If you choose to
add this player, click on the command bar. If you would like to choose
another player, click outside of the card, on the field. 
  Finally, upon selecting a player, you will be prompted to place the
player on a beveled square. The view will move to the four beveled
squares. Place your player on one of these by clicking on the desired
square. He will be available to move when the action begins.
  Up to four players may be added at once. Any more than that, and you'll
have to wait until next turn.

Touchdowns
 
  Touchdowns are scored when a player reaches the opposite end zone with
the ball. It may be handed to him across the line, thrown to him, or he may
run it in. A point will be awarded to the scoring team. When a team scores 
three points, the game is over. Let the feast begin! 

Skills 
 
  Some lucky players have specialized skills. These are listed on the
second page of the football card. They are as follows:

 1. Block - The player will have a bonus 1 block ability and resistance to
            blocks.   
 2. Catch - If a player misses a pass, and he has a catch skill, it will be
            re-rolled. "It's incomplete.....but caught out of the air"
 3. Dirty Tackle - When tackling a player, the dirty tackle skill will
                   affect armor checks. They will be more likey to fail,
                   and more prone to harmful injuries.
 4. Distract - When throwing the opponent throws the ball, the distract
               skill will subtract 1 from his throwing base if the
               distracting player is adjacent.
 5. Jump Up - Instead of falling face down when being knocked over, a
              player with 'jump up' will be placed face up.
 6. Mighty Blow - This works the same as Dirty Tackle, but Mighty Blow
                  effects all blocks. Including Gangups.
 7. Nerves of Steel - Counter-acts the distract skill, and makes throwers
                      and catchers immune to adjacent players.
 8. Strip Ball - Adds a bonus to stripping the ball.
 9. Sure Hands - Counter-acts the strip ball, and gives a bonus to holding
                 on during a strip attempt.
10. Tackle - The player will have a bonus 1 tackle ability and resistance
             to tackle attempts on them.
11. Thick Skull - Changes STUNNED results to the RESERVE box ("Player
    shakes off the injury"), and KNOCKED OUT RESULTS to the STUNNED 
    box.
12. Toughness - Less likely to fail an armor check or be injured.
13. Throw - If a thrower throws a bad pass, it will be re-rolled.

Stats

 In-game, individual statistics are kept for each player. (This is found on
the third page of the card.)

 Blk/Ast     Number of successful blocks/Number of gangblock assists
 Tac/Str     Number of successful tackles/Number of strips
 Inj/Kil     Number of successful Injuries inflicted/Number of kills
 Pa/C/S      Number of Passes/Complete/Squares in the air
 Cat/Sqr     Number of Catches/Squares in the air
 Ru/Sqr      Number of Rushes/Squares gained
 TD          Number of Touchdowns Scored

 Any time a player gains possession of the ball, the Ru is increased by one.
Even if he catches it... the Sqr after Ru is the number of positive squares
gained while in possession of the ball.

OTHER JUNK

 At the option of a player's move, you may press 'i' or click -Info- on
the command bar.
 A window will appear with the RESERVE, STUNNED, KO, INJURY, and DEAD
boxes. Players' numbers will appear in the appropriate boxes. 
 Clicking on the names of the teams above the row of boxes will bring up
the roster screen.

 Similarly, at the movement option, you may press 'c' or click -Card- on 
the command bar. This will display the Bloodball card of the current, 
selected player. Click outside of the card to resume, inside to cycle
through the 3 pages of info.

 Also, by pressing the mouse button on a player that is not adjacent to the
current player, the player's stat card will be displayed on the screen.

 By clicking and holding the right mouse button, you may move the view of
the field with the mouse.
 You may freeze the screen at any location by pressing both buttons
simultaneously. (For smoother use, release the right button first, while
still holding the left.) Click the right button to unfreeze.

Thanks.
 
    If you'd like to contribute to the future of Blood Ball, write me a
letter and send me dough at:
 
                              Kevin Sheller
                              390 Allen Dr
                              Wadsworth, Ohio   44281
                              216-336-4418

   Or, if you have internet access, write me at:

               kevins@file02.ecgf.uakron.edu

          I'd like around $10 for the hardware and software I used to write
          the game, but hey, anything will make me happy. If you do 
          send me the dough, you'll be sent more teams,
          more races, and a simple team editor/creator program.
          And if you make me feel real good, you just might see me add
          lotsa neat stuff to the program for the future. I'm gettin'
          burned out. I need some support.
