To all who care:                                   v1.0   September 1992

 I began Blood Ball as a test project. I never felt I would really get
around to finishing it. But thanks to my friends and their support, I
really got into it.
 
 Obviously, this version really can't be considered a finished version. It
needs lots of work, and many more months of programming to be the game I
want it to be. 
  
 Either way, I've really enjoyed writing it - until now. This is the third
re-write. I'm disappointed with some of the restrictions. Like the fact
that it's a memory hog. That impedes me a lot! Unless you have a meg of
CHIP, I can't even put sounds into it, and not enough people have that yet...
 Depending on my level of interest, which has been low lately, I'd like to
rewrite some of the source to free up some memory...then I could at least
add more user friendly control and sounds. But I've been having trouble making
myself sit down and do it lately. I think all I need right now is to see if
this thing is WORTH putting the time into it. It all depends on the response
and support/lack of support from you guys; the users. 
 Support doesn't necessarily mean $dough; just plain ol' positive 
encouragement goes a long way. 
  I've been watching how Amiga people out there complain about bad 
programmers like me. Hell, I use AMOS! The game's a memory hog! It 
doesn't even have sounds! It's two-player only! What's my problem? 
  That's pretty discouraging for me. So, it's up to you. If you're able
to ignore those things and enjoy my game anyway, let me know. I'll 
reward you for it. Just as you'll reward me...

  I dream of including magic spells and items, many more skills,  
computer control, more races, league play, and options options options! 

If your dreams are similar, lemme know.

-= ALL USERS! If you even remotely like MY game, you'll LOVE the role
playing/board game, Blood Bowl(tm) by Games Workshop! It's available 
at your local hobby & RPG stores...

 To Games Workshop: (My true inspiration)

  I hope you guys enjoy this minor version of your popular game, Blood
Bowl. Obviously, it is not up to par. It needs more work, and I'd like to
put the work into it. It would be incredible if some support were to come
from YOU! Tell me what you think...
  Maybe we can even work out a deal???

 To François Lionet: (author of AMOS)

  Thanks for building the environment with which I could vent my
creativity. I hope you decide to make a new version of AMOS soon.
It'll be great to see it get even better!
