NOTES:                                             v1.0     September 1992

The field was left as an IFF picture so that you might design your own
emblems for your very own home field. I've seen some imaginative designs by
my friends...

You CAN multi-task with the program, use CTRL-A to move back and forth
between Blood Ball and your background tasks.

To keep it simple, I let CTRL-C abort the program instantly. Be careful. 
There is no, "Are you sure you wanna quit option" So be sure you wanna do
it before you do it! :)

TROUBLESHOOTING

If the program aborts half-way through loading there are two possible
problems. 

1. All the files aren't in the right place.
 or
2. You don't have enough memory available at the time.

The files need to be as follows:

 the Bloodball: directory should look like this:

   data        (dir)
   teams       (dir)
   BLOODBALL

 Inside the data directory, you'll find the numbered and named data files.
 The teams dir should contain the four teams supplied with the program.
 
 IMPORTANT: Two libararies are necessary for the program to run. They
should be in the libs directory of your SYS: disk (or boot disk). 
  They are:
 
   diskfont.library
   mathtrans.library

 If any of these files aren't in the right place, then the program will NOT
run.

Memory problems:

 Ideally, you need 512k of chip and 512k of fast to run Blood Ball. If you
are running any background tasks, you may need to remove them until Blood
Ball runs properly. More than this should work fine. I've not had the 
chance to properly test the game on an accelerated machine. If you notice
some speed problems, let me know and I can add some extra slow-down stuff
for you lucky people!
 If you have decided to put Blood Ball on your hard drive, (thanks!) then
you may have a memory problem with buffers. If you are one of those few
unlucky ones that has only a meg of memory, you may run into
some strange occurances during play. One of the most common is if a
'bloodball stat card' doesn't disappear correctly, leaving a black box
where it once was. This will happen if you are only a few k short of the
necessary requirements. (Your hard drive probably takes up some space with
its buffers.) There are two things to try. Either unplug your second disk
drive, if you have one, or run add44k before you run Bloodball. I have
included this program in the archive.
