Setting Up BloodBall:                             v1.0     September 1992

To make a bootable floppy:

1. Install the disk
   (use the fuction install from CLI like this:
    Install df0:)

2. Copy the Data, Teams, and Libs directories and all of their files to the
   disk. 

3. Copy the BLOODBALL program in the main directory.

4. create a directory called 's'
   (use the function 'makedir' from the cli like this:
    makedir df0:s)

5. create a textfile in that directory called 'startup-sequence'. 
   The file will have only one word in it: 
   bloodball

6. Write enable the disk (to keep away viruses! :), reset the computer, and
   stick it in df0:

  if you have problems, please check bloodball.notes, TROUBLESHOOTING.

Installing on a HD:

 I'm a CLI person. Can't stand workbench, (thus the crummy .info file) If
someone would like to draw me a kick-ass .info file, please feel free. I'll
be sure to use it!

 Anyway, the program is very simple to run from a hard drive.
All ya gotta do is throw all the files in one directory. CD to that
directory and type Bloodball. (You'll need to make sure the
mathtrans.library and the diskfont.library are in your libs dir though)

 If you are using workbench, then you'll need to copy all the files with
CLI. (Use DirWork, or DiskMaster, or DirOpus, or something) Dirwork is PD.
And my favorite. Anyway....
 Make sure that your libs directory on your boot partition of your hard
drive contains the diskfont.library and the mathtrans.library. Bloodball
needs those to run!
 Move the dirs and files into a directory. (Most likely your GAMES
directory) and then click on that wonderfully boring Bloodball icon. Bingo!
Yer program should load up. If you have problems, check the bloodball
notes, TROUBLESHOOTING. (Or just read the stuff on how to install it to a
floppy. It's a similar process)
 
  If you still can't figure it out, you have my permission to bug me about
it. I'll be happy to help. Write me or call me with the number in the docs.
