                   STRATEGY

The sdl-scavenger game is much like the popular
Lode Runner game by Broderbund.  There are a few
subtle differences however that greatly affect
optimal game strategy.

The score is based on five factors. 
(Time, Objects, Flashing Objects, Hidden Monster, Enemy Cruelty)

Time:

Time is an important, factor, but not the most important factor.
When you start each game level you are given a 10,000 point time bonus.
Each second of play time deducts 100 points from this bonus.
Once this 10,000 point time bonus is used up, (100 seconds), you
are no longer penalized for taking more time.  Some levels are so
involved that they always take over 100 seconds to solve so time is
not a factor in determining your score.  If you match the best score in
less time, however, your name will be put into the hall-of-fame
and your game will become the new movie-demo for that level.

Objects: (Blueberrys in the default game configuration)

Collecting these objects gives you 250 points for each collected
object.  While this isn't the biggest factor in getting a high
score, they all must be collected, before you can finish the
level.

Flashing Object: (Flashing Blueberry in the default game configuration)

The Flashing Object appears randomly in one of three locations specified
by the level designer.  It's location changes each time you play the level.
If you can manage to collect the Flashing Object before any of the other
objects (except the Hidden Monster *) you get an 8000 point bonus.
* The Hidden Monster can be collected before the flashing object without
affecting the 8000 point Flashing Object bonus.

Hidden Monster: (Spiral thing in the default game configuration)

The Hidden monster is randomly buried under one of three secret locations
specified by the level designer.  It's location changes each time you play.
You must blast open the block containing the Hidden monster, to release him.
Then you must blast another hole and drop the Hidden Monster into it.
Once the hidden monster is re-trapped he releases his treasure. (It looks
like an orange Pill in the default configuration). Run over his head to
collect the orange pill before it disappears, and you get a 10,000 point
Hidden Monster bonus.

Enemy Cruelty Penalties:

The enemies are trying to kill you.  If they touch you, they kill you.
You must use ladders and holes to escape them, collect all of the Berrys,
and exit the level at a ladder reaching the top of the screen.  If an enemy
is trapped in a hole, falling, or walking, then you can walk on his head
without getting killed.  Stay clear of enemies when on ladders however.

You start with a 20,000 point nice guy bonus.  If you drop an enemy into
a hole that you dug (blasted), you lose 10,000 points (Trapping Penalty).
If you trap an enemy in a hole long enough for it to grow back around him,
then he dies, and his clone appears at the top of the screen.  When an enemy
is killed in this way you lose 10,000 points (Killing Penalty).  You can only
be penalized once-per-level for each of these two penalties.

So to get the best score you try to trick the enemys into falling into holes
that you didn't dig, or fool them into going the wrong way by climbing up/down
ladders, or escaping through holes that you dig.  If you become good at evading,
rather than blasting the enemys, you usually get a better score.  

Some levels are designed so that it is impossible to solve the level without
trapping or killing the enemys.  Some depend on the enemys coming in at the
top of the screen to make the level solvable.  On these levels you have to
blast.  But it is always a challenge to try solving the levels without
trapping, or killing the enemys.  It is almost always easier to solve a level
by trapping or killing the enemies, but you won't get the highest possible score
if you solve the level that way.

All of the levels are solvable.  Some are very challenging.  If you don't
believe a level is solvable then run the game with the -s  option to see
how the masters solve the level.  Example:
sdlscav -s -l 40  (Demonstrates how to solve level 40 - linux)
sdlscav -s 40     (Windows users)

When you get good at the game you may prefer to run the game with the -s option
so you can compete with the masters, to see if you can replace their scores in
the "Hall-of-Fame" demo movies.

The demos (in the masters.scl file [viewable by using the -s option]),are often
created by the game or level designers themselves.  So if you can beat their scores
or times, you are doing very well indeed.
