                        GravAttack Version 099
                        By Scott Peterson
                        Jan 29, 1988

Info for loading:
   If this game won't load for you its probably because there isn't
enough room in memory for it.  This version uses almost 400K.  The best
way to ensure room is to press CNTRL-D during WorkBench boot-up (you have
to catch it early).  Once in CLI, type "Grav099" and press RETURN.  It is
usually best to make a bootup-disk exclusivly for this game.  Please
make sure that the disk is not write-protected so that the high scores
will be saved properly.  It is not necessary to copy "BestScores" because
the program will automaticaly create it upon execution.

Game limitations:
   In a 512K Amiga, this game is too big to co-reside with other software,
and too big to be loaded with icons.  On Amigas with more than 512K, icon
loading is allowed, but my game does fret a little and sometimes draws
vertical bars on the information screens (no big deal).  Another problem is
that the "EXIT" function succeeds only in crashing the system (soon to be
fixed).  I would like to hear from those who find more problems.

Improvements:
   Version 099 now has no problem loading on machines with more than 512K;
Included is an icon donated by John Ratzlaff to be used with WorkBench.  The
Secret Bonus for level III will no longer give a bonus of negative 32768 FUEL
points like it occasionally used to.  A couple internal changes were also
made.

Later versions:
   This game still has a few minor problems;  I am going to fix as many
as I can and let out more versions.  I also have ideas for improving graphics
and sounds, adding levels, and making a two player modem version;  I will do
these if response to my game is good.

This game is shareware:
   Feel free to distribute this game on any medium, so long as no fee is
charged beyond that for duplication.  Also, this README must be included
with the program.  If you play this game a lot, and like it, maybe you would
like to send me a little donation.  This will help ensure future shareware
releases, from myself and all the other shareware authors.  With shareware,
everybody comes out ahead.... except the publishing companies.

P.S. - Who is "The Schmoo"?

P.P.S - My game has been out for about three months now.  I would like to
      once again thank those people who have responded, and give a desperate
      plea to those who have not yet written... Please send me money... I
      have to pay for school...

