

                               ...FLOOD MANUAL...

                        ...Typed by BamBam of ORACLE...

1) Meet Quiffy

Quiffy is a slightly overweight wee green Blobble who lives in secret caverns
deep underground, feeding on the trash left behind by an ancient and enigmatic
civilization. Unfortunately, these caverns have been overrun with nasty 
creatures like Psycho Teddies and Quiffy's distant cousins, the Bulbous Headed
Vong.

These unlovely creatures haved waged a vicious war on Quiffy's kind and he is 
now in the unfortunate position of being the last surviving member of his race.
Indeed, you can see the luckless participants of this genocidal war stretched
throughout the interconnected cavens.

If all that wasn't bad enoug, the mysterious taps of wrath have suddenly ended
their years of arid indifference and have started to cascade vast quantities of
water into the caverns. Because Quiffy cannot breathe under water, he has 
decided that enough is enough and he resolved to make his way to surface and 
escape the creeping doom of the Food.

2) What do you have to do?

The idea of FLOOD is very simple, within each level Quiffy must explore the 
caverns that make up that level and collect all the trash that is not nailed
down. Once he has collected all the trash, then he can use the END OF LEVEL
TELEPORTER and proceed to the next level. In addition to the 36 normal levels,
Quiffy must also negotiate his way through a further 6 levels that devilish
Vong have built, making 42 in all!

There are two types of teleporter which outwardly look identical: THE END OF
LEVEL TELEPORTER and the IN LEVEL TELEPORTERS, The END OF LEVEL TELEPORTER
takes Quiffy to the next level once he's picked up all of the trash on the
current level. The IN LEVEL TELEPORTERS (which can be invisible) are linked
in pairs and just move you to the linked IN LEVEL TELEPORTER, which will be 
at a different location within the current level. 

3) The Status Bar

OXYGEN - This is a blue bar that shows how much oxygen Quiffy has left, While
Quiffy is underwater, his oxygenis slowly used up. Once Quiffy has no oxygen
remaining, he will start to lose life force and eventually die.

SCORE - Well well, this is your score!!

TRASH - This is a count of how much trash Quiffy has to collect before he can
use the END OF LEVEL TELEPORTER and get to the next level. Some monsters are
real litter louts, throwing trash all over the place, increasing the amount
of stuff that Quiffy will have to clear up, while others are more considerate
and will eat any spare trash they see lying around.

LIFE FORCE - This brown bar shows how healthy Quiffy is. Once it has all been
used up, Quiffy will slag down into a gooey mess and auto-inter himself.

4) Other objects

Barrels       Stops creatures roaming too far.
Stout         It's good for you! Gives you an extra life.
Cocktail      Be invincible for a short time.
Orange can    Creatures disappear but you are butterfingered.
Plunger       Pauses the flood temporarily.
Hearts        Increase your life force and your score.
Mines         Boom! Lose some life force.
Switch        Discover hidden objects and secret passages
Droplet       Speed up the flood.
Balloons      Jump on these for a slow ride up, but mind you 
              don't burst them.
Parachute     Jump on it for a slow ride down. Push the joystick up to slow
              your decent even further.

5) Zap to level

While playing a level, if you see a ?, then just walk Quiffy over it to get
the password to that level. Not all of the levels have passwords and some ?'s
will be hidden!

At the start of the game, a box comes up, prompting you for a four letter 
password. If you have found a password to a specific level while playing an
earlier game, then type in the password and press RETURN. When you press
RETURN, the level number corresponding to that password will be displayed
and once you press the fire butten on your joystick you will start the game
at that level.

6) The Hardware

There is a variety of life threatening hardware scattered throughout the
caverns, presumably left over from the somewhat unpleasant war waged upon
Quiffy's kind. Due to the unfriendly disposition of the other denizens of
the caverns towards Quiffy, it's usually advisable to grab the first danger-
ous looking piece of kit that comes to hand and blast anything that comes 
near!

Known dangerous hardware includes: Huge Flamethrowers, Grenades, Boomerangs,
Shuriken and delayed action Dynamite. Remember, it doesn't always pay to 
shoot first!

7) Keyboard commands

P    Pause (Press fire on your joystick to continue)
R    Restart the level and lose a life.
ESC  Quit



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

                 Make sure to call these awesome ORACLE hq's!!!


         The Jungle         'ORACLE WHQ USA'   at: 708-983-5764  U.S.A.
         DOWN TOWN          'ORACLE HQ EUROPE' at:+31 575029313  HOLLAND
         Games Mania        'ORACLE HQ ITALY'  at:+39 248842811  ITALY   
         Red & Black        'ORACLE HQ ITALY'  at:+39 59651693   ITALY
         DULCET TONES        'ORACLE HQ UK'    at:+44 382739192  ENGLAND
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------


[0m