THE PINK PANTHER
The Pink Panther is completely broke again, due to his excessive life style, and is now looking for a job. Being a butler would be nice. 
A chance to live in comfortable homes and rob the owners at night. 

Five burglaries would do nicely! Then the Panther could afford a holiday in the South in order to recover from his hard work.
Unfortunately, when he applied for the jobs, the Pink Panther didn't know  that all of his employers were sleepwalkers. Now he has to guide his employer carefully through the house, enabling him to pick up all the valuables without his employer waking up.

But Inspector Clouseau is not lazy, either. For years he has tried to catch the Panther in the act, so he sneaks about the house as well.
How can Pink Panther accomplish his goal without getting caught?
He has a few tricks up his sleeve also.

PLAYING THE GAME
JOB OFFERS 
The Panther can choose an employer to work for here.

THE DEPARTMENT STORE 
The wealthier his employer, the better the Panther's appearance has to be. If he has enough money, he can buy tails and a tophat for his job.
Properly equipped, he can introduce himself.
You can get into the houses of the richest people if you have successfully visited (raided) the previous ones.

REQUIREMENTS FOR THE DIFFERENT HOUSES
 House 0 - Nothing special needed here
 House 1 - Tophat 
 House 2 - Gold watch
 House 3 - References required (faked)
 House 4 - Car

Do what you can, the Panther will appreciate it.

SLEEPWALKER'S GUIDE
If Pink Panther stands in a defensive position, facing the sleepwalker, (fire and direction) the sleepwalker will change his direction when he collides with the Panther.
If you want the sleepwalker to change direction (front to back) Pink Panther has to face the desired direction and jingle the bell.

DIRTY TRICKS
Pink Panther can make use of several surprises and nasty tricks.
He can inflate some objects. For example, a phantom panther made out of plastic, that makes the sleepwalker turn around and catches Inspector Clouseau's attention.
Even the inflatable hole has unhappy consequences for the Inspector. Of course, he'll fall into it if he comes too close. 

In order to direct the sleepwalker from a distance, Pink Panther can distribute catapults and boards which guide the sleepwalker safely around obstacles. As for the other items, you'll find out on your own.

CONTROLLING THE PINK PANTHER
MOVE - Use the joystick to move in various directions.

REDIRECT SLEEPWALKER - Move joystick left or right while pressing the
                       fire button.

INFLATE OBJECT - Press fire button three times.

CALL UP SELECTION MENU - Hold joystick down and press fire button.

ACTIVATE AN ITEM - Hold joystick in up position and press fire button.


CONTROLLING ITEMS WITHIN THE SELECTION MENU
LIST ITEMS (In thought bubble) - Move joystick left or right.

SELECT BELL - Move joystick down.
 
ACTIVATE - Press fire button.

RETURN TO GAME - Move joystick up and press fire button.


THE DISPLAYS
A - Pink Panther shows how weary he is. Keep him awake, but do not
    wake anybody else.

B - Pink Panther is thinking. Select the item he should inflate.

C - Title: You can always tell which game you are playing, should you
           happen to forget.

D - Moneybag: When it is full, the Panther has done enough work.

E/F - Current score and the amount of remaining tries are shown.

 