

                   * * * * *     4-GET-IT     * * * * *

                       Written by SilverFox SoftWare

                        RUNNING THE 4-GET-IT DEMO:

          Before you run 4-GET-IT, you must install a font in your
     fonts directory.  Use the "INSTALL FONT" program by double
     clicking on its icon.  Don't let the icon mislead you, "INSTALL
     FONT" will work on floppies as well as hard drives.  It simply
     copies a font to your FONTS: directory.  You must have "COPY" and
     "MAKEDIR" in your C: directory for the installation to work.

          After you've installed the font, you may run the demo by
     double clicking on its icon.



             What do you get when you buy the real thing???

     1) Almost 300 New Puzzles to play that are organized into several
        categories.  Enough 4-GET-IT to keep you busy for months!
 
     2) The ability to load new boards for almost infinite levels. SilverFox
        will be releasing a board editor and all new boards soon as well.

     3) More and improved graphics (over 700K of compacted reward graphics
        are on the game disk alone) with the ability to load even more
        graphics.

     4) The ability to enter your name into a list of 500 high scores.
        Yes, 500!!!!

     5) Control over more options such as volume of music and sound fx
        and sensitivity of mouse or joystick response. Also, the ability
        to pause the game to take a break!

     6) More Crazy and Magical tiles not in the demo version plus the
        chance to see many more game tiles.

     7) Cheats and nice little surprises built into the program we can't
        tell you about.


   If you want to buy the real thing, please send $20 (continental US) to:


                         Adisak Pochanayon
                         SilverFox Software
                         2525 University Avenue
                         Suite J
                         Madison, WI 53705
                         (608) 238-2463

                         USENET: pochanay@cae.wisc.edu


P.S.  Just in case the text in the GAME DEMO scrolled by too quick, here
      it is again.


Hello and welcome to the strange world of 4-Get-It. This is a puzzle game,
but one with some bizzare and mean twists to it. You will have to work
your way through over 200 levels of maddening puzzles before you have
exhausted this game (and we are already working on new levels and an
editor). 

The object of the game is simple -- just match up all the tiles on the
screen and you will move on. However, this is NOT as easy as it may seem.
Matching two tiles is easy, but how about three? And what if you can't GET
to one of them? What if you accidently match two of the three? What do you
do with the last one? And we aren't content with just using the tiles to
make the game challenging, we also have special tiles that explode, form
walls, match with anything and more. The walls themselves don't even play
fair at times, some walls have trapdoors, or are covered with goop that
stops tiles from moving. There are many other strange effects, but you will
just have to see them for yourselves.

To play the game, you will need a Joystick, Mouse or Keyboard. (If you
don't have any of these, I can't help you...) All you do is move the cursor
(the flashing square) around with either the mouse, joystick or cursor keys,
postion it over a tile, hit the button (or spacebar) and slide the tile
left or right. That's it. When two or more matching tiles are adjacent to
one another (either horizontally or vertically) they will vanish. The more
you match at once, the higher your score will be.

In the commercial version of this game you will get victory screens after
every ten levels. The full game also has different categories of puzzles,
the main game, tricky puzzles, themed puzzles, easy puzzles etc. All total
there are over 200 levels. You will also get to see a victory screen after
every ten levels are completed. And when you are done, you can enter your
name in the top 500 high score list on the disk (so we went overboard...).

In case you have seen the PC version of this game, please don't be swayed,
we spent a long time improving 4-GET-IT for the Amiga market. The Amiga
version uses 64 colors, more tiles, more special tiles and walls, more
music, more sound effects, more levels, and more victory screens. I hope
you enjoy this product, we worked hard on it.


                         Adisak Pochanayon
                         SilverFox Software
                         2525 University Avenue
                         Suite J
                         Madison, WI 53705

          To register and receive the real game, send $20 to
          Adisak Pochanayon at the above address.

          If you have any questions or comments or would like 
          to purchase 4-GET-IT, please call or write. We would 
          like to hear from you! 



