COMMANDO RAID 1 README FILE!!!

This short file is just here to warn you about things that might
keep Commando Raid from running properly on your system.  I know *I*
always hate it when some awful program I just downloaded won't run,
so here are some KNOWN things that will cause the program to crash:

	- Running it in PAL mode.  You can't even PLAY in PAL mode.
	  I really apologize for this, but for some strange reason,
	  the status bar in the game entirely disappears in PAL.  Also
	  some other horrible things happen.  Switch to NTSC and the
	  game should run fine.  Besides, the game's faster in NTSC :-)
	- Not having a certain file.  If the files are in some other directory
	  just remember that all the files that were in your archive
	  of this game HAVE to be in the same directory as CR when you
	  run it.  If you're using a directory program, try CD'ing to the
	  CommandoRaid directory before running it.
	- Having other programs running at the same time.  CR is not
	  a multitasking game.  In fact it's very system unfriendly (well,
	  fairly system unfriendly).
	- Not having enough memory!  I know for a fact that this will cause
	  the game ending to crash!  If you don't have a meg of memory
	  yet, get with the times.  I'm pretty sure the game runs fine
	  on a meg, but it's really a memory hog.  This program was tested
	  on an A1200 with 2 megs, and an A500 with 1 meg, and it ran fine.

   90% of gurus seem to be caused by lack of memory.  But don't get the
   idea that the game will never work!  It should work just fine.

FILES *REQUIRED* FOR COMMANDO RAID TO RUN:

	CR.M1
	CR.M2
	CR.P1
	CR.P2
	CR.T
	CR.S
	CR.F
	CR.P
	CR.S1			(not very descriptive, are they?)
	CR.S2
	CR.S3
	CR.S4
	CR.L1
	CR.L2
	CR.L3
	CR.L4
	CR.B

OTHER BUGS?!

   I don't know of any!  I've been testing the program for quite a while,
and I *think* I've worked them all out ... but you never know.  If you 
come across a particularly glaring one, let me know (read the CR.DOC file
for more info).  By the way, the program SHOULD avoid most gurus by just
quitting back to workbench, but don't count on it.

Commando Raid is Copyright(C)1994 by William Nolan.  All Rights Reserved.
No fee may be charged for distributing it except a minimal fee for disk
and postage.  Please distribute it freely to your friends, bulletin boards,
shareware companies, disk magazines, software houses, Fortune 500 companies,
whatever.  This file and the accompanying documention (CR.DOC) must be
present in the archive when it is distributed.

William Nolan