BANE OF THE COSMIC FORGE:

        The password to enter the door in the SE tower of the 1st level is
        "SNOOPCHERI".  Use the rotten cheese on the mousehole.  Some small
        help for playing the game successfully: When you create your
        characters, it may be a good idea just to make all of them Dracons.

        This is untested, but unless you have at least one of this fire
        breathing race you surely wont survive the game.  So maybe it would
        be good to have more.  Use a good mix of the classes, try to take
        one of each spell class and a good solid thief that is at full
        strength.  Get a good enough thief and you dont need a fighter.  It
        may be slow, but keep rolling till you get the best character
        possible.  Be sure to make at least one character female, there are
        places in the game where this is a must.  Don't do it and be sorry
        later!  Diversify your skills.

        Have each character specialise in a few skills relative to his
        class.  Do not worry about developing weapons skills, you have no
        use for them if you created your party correctly.  In fights early
        in the game use DRACONS BREATH ATTACK, just be careful not to over
        extend yourself.  Rest after each encounter, backing up your hard
        work.  Always search the area after a combat.  Search each square
        you step in.  Not only this, but search facing all four directions,
        many things can only be found that way.  Thieves are not always
        true.  If you find a lock and have your thief open it, allways
        guess it is poison unless you are 100% sure (I.E. tried it before)
        because it is better to suffer something else than to die by
        getting this wrong.  Don't bash doors early in the game!  If your
        characters are not very strong you will be sorry.  Jammed doors do
        you no good, as you might never be able to open them again.  Same
        goes for picking the lock.  Wait till you get a caster capable of
        conjuring knock knock with at least 18 points (prefereably 24) and
        do it this way.  It is much more sure.  Once you know there are
        secret panels or buttons,  keep walking past them until you
        discover them.  You can find them by looking at the maps and know
        where they are, sometimes it takes awhile to sense them.

        At the drawbridge when you get to the control panel (which is
        rusted so you must use the mystry oil). The correct sequence is as
        follows: Safety, Pump, Coil, Truss, Safety, Winder. The drawbridge
        should now lower. 
