BARBARIAN II: (Psygnosis)

        Hold down the 'HELP', 'M', and 'E' keys to replenish your energy.
        If you have an 'AMIGA ACTION REPLAY II' hold down the keys and
        press the replay button (while your holding the keys).  Then let up
        on the keys now use 'X' to go back to the game.  The computer still
        thinks the keys are being pressed (the game crashes if you use the
        ACTION REPLAY III).




BARBARIAN II: (Palace):

        LEVEL 1:  LEFT, LEFT, RIGHT 7 TIMES, LEFT, RIGHT, LEFT, IN CAVE,
                  AND RIGHT.

        LEVEL 2:  RIGHT, UP, LEFT, UP, LEFT, LEFT, RIGHT, LEFT 3 TIMES, UP,
                  AND LEFT.

        LEVEL 3:  UP, RIGHT, RIGHT, UP, LEFT, RIGHT, UP, RIGHT, LEFT, LEFT,
                  UP, LEFT, LEFT, UP, UP, RIGHT, RIGHT, LEFT, LEFT, AND UP.



                                SOLUTION


  Level One

  Repeated use of the heap chop is the most effective tactic against the
  neanderthal man, but make sure you take a step back between  hits.  Stay
  low to survive against the Sauron beast - if you don't you'll lose your
  head.  Chopping is the best tactic here, but step back between each
  strike, Use the low chop against the Mutant chicken, but wait until it's
  standing up right before you let loose.

  Level Two

  The orc pushes you against the wall.  Use repeated head chops to kill
  him.  Counter his stabbing manoevre with a low chop.  When the crab comes
  near, kick at it and then low chop it.  If you miss take a step back and
  try again.  Carnivores are killed with the chop, except when they leap
  at you - then a high chop is needed.  The stinger can only be killed by
  repeated high chopping - everything else is useless.

  Level Three

  Escape the grabbing tentacle by leaping the pit as it withdraws.
  Floating eyes can only be killed with a high chop - every other move has
  no effect.  The Dungeon Master is the toughest creature of all.  If he
  punches at you, low chop him and if he kicks use the high chop.  When he
  is approaching, try a flying neck chop - that'll kill him in one go.

  Level Four

  The first monster may seem formidable but he is really easily dealt with.
  Just turn around and walk backwards into it, so you can push your way
  onto the next screen.  This manoevre costs you energy but not as much as
  you would  have lost fighting the beast head on.  The great demon is
  next.  Begin this bout with a flying neck chop and follow it up with a
  low chop.  If you miss first them, retreat quickly to get out of his
  range and repeat.  In a similar fashion to the orgianal Barbarian game,
  the final confrontation is with Drax himself.  The place to stand is
  directly in front of the hanging corpse on the wall.  From here you're
  in a perfect position to execute a flying neck chop - the only move that
  will finish the job.
