BATTLETECH:


                            PLAYERS GUIDE


  * Money

    Probably the biggest factor in the whole game is money - no money,
    no skill, no mech, no chance.  The more cash the better equipped
    you'll be for combat.
    Every five minutes or so your account is boosted by fifteen credits
    as Ma and Pa robot decide it's time to give some more of your
    allowance.  Don't hang around!  Initially invest in a low risk account
    and then move onto the intermediate one.  Do this for a few hours and
    you'll be counting the wads, around 350,000 of 'em.

  * Training School

    You'll not get far without any training, and the first thing you need
    to know is how to defend yourself.  The important basics to learn are
    knife fight, rifle and machine gun, as these are the only weapon skills
    you'll find yourself needing.
    Stop off at the mechit-lube and take up an apprenticeship.  I know that
    it's expensive, but it enables you to patch up a battlefield mech, and
    take it in for a full repair and slap another member of your party
    inside.

    When it comes to combat training, try to move around as much as is
    possible and overheat as little as possible, and aim for speed on all
    the missions as this contributes to your overall mech skill.
    Medical skill is also a worthwhile venture; it'll also make sure you
    stay in the game longer.

  * Weaponry

    Start off with a machine gun.  It takes quite a few hits to kill a
    human and has no effect on mechs whatsoever - but, still, they're
    relatively cheap.  Later on try to get hold of a Laser Weapon; I
    recommend the inferno best of all.  One shot disposes of 90% of humans
    and Inferno Fire will overheat a mech, giving you time to flee.
    Whatever you do don't hang around taking on a twenty ton mech with a
    hand held SRM - it just doesn't work.  Equip yourself with forty
    point armour, it normally prevents any damage to the person in a
   typical combat round.

  * Mech Etiquette

    First and formost, with the lump of cash you should have by now, any
    mech you own should be customised at the mechit-lube, extra lasers and
    armour always come in handy at the expense of jump jets and missile
    launchers.  Never rule out kicking, more often than not it proves to
    be invaluable when a mech is close to shutdown.  Always try to face an
    attacking mech, all it could take is one hit with a small laser to the
    back to knock out half your arsenal.

  * Additional Hints `n' Tips

    On about the seventh training mission the city is invaded by Kuritans.
    Whatever you do don't fight back; turn tail and run into the ruins of
    the city.  If you make it head for the exit at the south end of the
    eastern wall.  Once you're there hit flee.  Afterwards, head north-
    west-north until you reach the starport.  Buy some civillian clothes
    and infiltrate the Kuritans coronation to find out about your mission.

