                      Info for Legend of Falconia

Thank you for playing the Demoversion of Legend of Falconia

You will it not repent if you buy the orginalversion.
Legend of Falconia guide you in a world nobody has seen it before. Experience
the adventures of Han S0l0, not Han Solo, Iabba, not Jabba, Lord Titanius and
of course the hero of the game.
Let you bewitch and admire the wonderful graphics in over 50 pictures. Let
your ears hear something good. Admire the fantastic sound from modules of the
PD sector, which provide the respective situation. Experience things you will
never experience in the normal live. Communicate with creatures you have never
seen before. If you imagine the craziest which you can imagine you don't come
to the crazy standard which is used in the game. 
So buy the Legend of Falconia at the following addresses for 25 DM in Germany
or 28 DM/20 US from abroad.

NOW AVAILABLE !!!

Amiga Version:
Frank Röchter
Pirolweg 26
33335 Gütersloh
Germany

PC Version:
Daniel Stanislaw
Isselhorster Str. 221
33335 Gütersloh
Germany


Here are some informations about the game:

Amiga Version:
 Systemconditions:
 - A PAL Amiga
   May also work on NTSC if you arrange the screens by pushing
   and holding the left mousebutton while you a not on gadget.
 - 1 MB Chipmem minimum
    ( good are 1 MB Chipmem + 512 KB other Mem (Chipmem/Fastmem))
 - An external drive or a harddisk with 4 MB minimum free
 - Kickstart 2.04+

PC Version:
Systemconditions:
- 386SX with 16 Mhz minimum
- MS DOS 3.2 minimum
- A graphiccard: VGA with 256 KB minimum
- For the originalversion you need 4 MB minimum on your harddisk.
- HD drive (3.5 inch)

A short instruction for the game:

The screen is parted in three areas.
The 1st screen is the graphicscreen. Here is the action of the game and you
can click things with the mouse on it. The 2nd screen is the commandscreen.
On the left are the commands and on the right is the inventory. Here are all
the things you have picked up during the game. At the beginning there is
nothing. Also in the inventory are all rooms listed where you can go in a
situation and also the things which are in the actual room. And last but not
least there is a 3rd screen. It is hide and you can see it when the persons
talk together. It's the Textscreen. It comes when you have made a combination
of commands and you pushed the returnbutton. Then the commandscreen moves down
and you can see the textscreen. Here are all dialogues the persons speak and
in which are often very important informations. You can move back the
commandscreen if you push the right mousebutton.


The Beginning:

If you start the demo, you will see a house in front of you. Here you can try
out something what you want. Move the mousecursor on the command which is
named "inquire into" and push the left mousebutton. Then move the mousecursor
in the picture e.g. on the door of the house and push the left mousebutton in
two times. You will find a chewing-gum. 
You can pick it up by clicking the symbol "take" and then the chewing-gum in
the picture or in the inventory in two times. If you have picked up the
chewing-gum you can see it in the inventory in red letters. If you want to use
something you click on "use", on the first object and then on the second object.
You can use "give" only when you want to give something to somebody.
Have much fun...

