                   Geodesic Publications

   This company was formed to explore innovative ideas in the
field of geodesic theory, software, space, and architecture.

   Triclops  Invasion  represents one of the  first  of a new
class of computer games, 3D space games. Objects in the game,
planets, cities,  ships,  satellites  are true  3D  polygonal
models.  They are cast in completely generalized  perspective
views. This is a real 3D game, on a real spherical 3D planet,
The only thing that's not truely three dimensional,   is that
it is all inside the computer and not sitting on your table !

   Contained in this game is a  geometric structure compiler.
It can can convert a  simple  structure  into a more  complex
structure.     The manner in which this is done is called the
geometric breakdown.   For an example,  the fractal planet in
this game was created from the icosahedron ( solid  of twenty
triangles ),    so the original number of points to store the
planet amounted to only twenty ! Those same twenty points are
also used to create some of the  geodesic  satellites.    The 
planet and satellites are the only times the   ver. 1.6  game
uses the geometric compiler,  version 2.0 will actually allow
the user to operate the compiler.    Also within this game is
generalize surface fractalization.     The planet is a sphere
with five fractal levels,  at fractal level 5,  the planet is
comprised of greater than  100,000  small triangles. Matching
the peudo-random seeds across all boundaries insure that  the
triangles fit together perfectly.   Chain matrix math is used
for the robotic motion. 

   Our main interest is the Amiga computer,   we also sell an
IBM AT version of our game.     We think that the  68000 / 20 
architecture is the best for the future and look  forward  to
coupled VLSI solutions.

  Those who purchase our game  will  receive  information  on
source code tool kits in 68000 assembly and C in the areas of
graphics, fractals, and geodesics.

   We are open to consulting on any computer.      We develop
general structural, topographical systems,  adaptable to real 
life landscapes.

   Sincerely Yours,

   Geodesic Publications                  Mark S. Adams
   P.O.Box 7                              President
   Willow Creek, CA. 95573                (916) 629-2514
