                   Geodesic Publications

    Welcome  to  Geodesic  Publications.  We set out with one
purpose in mind, to make the fastest real 3D animation system
for the Amiga.   We'll let the users decide if we made it !!! 
To do this,  we control the graphic chips directly, we do not
use any  ROM graphic routines.   Our vertical blank interrupt 
server intercepts the  copper  instruction  stream  directly,
providing flicker free animation with zero Intuition overhead.
Our 3D math is the fastest in the land,  on the sea,   or out
beyond the realms of space !

    The game uses what we consider a  World  Class  Mouse !!!
Show us another mouse that gives you six axes of motion,  can 
turn on off auto fire lock,  stop,   point you at your enemy,
give you a view from your present location, split the screen,
or pop up an eight globe world map,  all this without menus !
The game is fully mouse controlled,   the game also reads the
second mouse port,  looking for signs of intelligent life ???
Through this port lives the    Amiga  Sound  Analyzer  Module
available from Visual Aural Animations.

    No,  this version does not have glossy high tech artwork,
or even a well done manual,  you see, the 21 dollars paid for
this game includes a  COUPON  to mail in for the UPDATE game.
We have high expectations for TRICLOPS INVASION ver. 2.0:

1 : High tech color artwork on the cover of a complete manual.
2 : Two Player Mode!  Connect 2 Amigas together via the RS232
    null modem,  or autodial a friend with Amiga and modem. 
    In two player mode, the state of things are the same on
    both computers, except that you will be in YOUR ship.
3 : A super Triclops battle cruiser. Top Secret !!!
4 : Advancement in armaments, a full featured jet and tank. 
5 : A new planet with clouds, higher detailed cities.
6 : Strategies.  Teamwork. -Two player mode- Hide and Seek.
7 : Geodesic Theory !!!  with countless examples !  Demos !!!

   Best of all, the new version of the game with manual  will
be sent to you free of charge, for Thanksgiving.  So, send in 
those coupons by 11/15  and we will send it to you the moment
it is ready. The $21.00 you have paid already entitles you to
three disks: the one you have now, and the free update with a
backup.  You can can think of the game you have received now,
version 1.6,  as a freebee,  given to you in appreciation for
having sent in money for Triclops Invasion version 2.0 early!

   It is with this mindset, that we include on  ver. 1.6  the
notice to grant free distribution of it. It's highly possible 
that your friends do not have this game.
