>>
>> ESCAPE FROM JOVI III
>>

Written by Oliver Wagner         Levels: Christoph Teuber
           Landsberge 5                  Rheinstr. 65
           4322 Sprockhövel 2            5600 Wuppertal 1
           West Germany                  West Germany

This program is not Public Domain! It must not be copied.
A limited copying license is granted to make private copies of
EFJ and disks including it. These copies must not be sold, except
for covering expenses.

>> Für Deutschland:
>> EFJ sollte sich nicht auf Disks befinden, die für mehr als DM 5,-
>> abgegeben werden.
>> Der Autor behält sich vor, das Nutzungsrecht des Programms
>> entsprechend einzuschränken.

If copies are made, the unchanged DOX-File MUST be included.

If you like this program, please send a donation (about 10,- DM, $8)
to the author. Include a disk to obtain new levels and instructions
to create your own ! If these donations will cover my expenses, I will
release more of my programs on this way!

--  THE GAME  --

ESCAPE FROM JOVI is a joystick controlled agility-based game, feauturing

 - multi level, editable
 - real inertia and gravity effects
 - two-way hires-scrolling
 - animated sprite (sort of)
 - digital stereo sound
 - "Hall of Fame" saved to disk
 - soundtracked music
 - cheat-mode

EFJ will work only if started from the CLI. Simply enter "EFJ" to start.
Make sure to be in "80 Column" text mode (see Preferences)!
The following files are required to work successfully:

 "EFJ_data" (contains graphics & sounds)
 (missing this will crash the machine!)
 "EFJ_HiScores" (guess!)
 and the levels, running from "L00" to "L0wasweisich".

The program will restart with "L00" if a level fails to load, so a missing
"L00" will cause some neat loop effects on gameplay...

The object of the game is to escape from an underwurlde cave system on
Jupiter (yes, i know, gas planet and that all...but i didn`t want to think
about game names after writing it...). You a transporting a valuable bottle
of beer ("Pils"), so if you crash against a wall and the bottle breaks,
you MUST (and will) kill yourself to save your face. Also, if time runs out,
your ship will explode, too (I don`t know why). If you have no more fuel,
you will have to control your ship by praying...
The ship is controlled by simply pushing the Joystick in the direction you
want to accelerate, but beware of inertia and gravity, you may get VERY
fast...
If you have successfully escaped from one cave, you`ll get some score and
the next level will be loaded. If you have completed all levels found on
disk (that is, the game can`t load the current level), you get a bonus ship
and restart from the beginning, with less fuel and time!

Now, go on and enjoy...

A last hint: Beware of getting to fast. It`s very difficult to change
direction if a crash is imminent!

Thanx go to Holger Lubitz for musical support and to Christoph Teuber for
creating all those nasty levels...

- Olli
