
Nuclear Assault - Guide



Systemrequirements:

The game should run on every AMIGA with the AGA-Chipset or a graphic-card.
If you have a graphic-card, you should use a screen-promotor to get the game
on a graphic-card-screen. Normaly the game opens a 256-color PAL-HiRes-
Screen.



Installation:

For playing from harddisk you only have to copy the maindirectory 
"NuclearAssault" on your harddisk. But don¥t rename the directory 
"NuclearAssault"!



The idea:

I started to program on the AMIGA one year ago (Many years ago I programed
on the C-16 and the C-64). After my tool "Mech-Konstruktor", this is my 
first really action-game, I completed.
I have taken a classical theme for it: The game is like the famous arcade-
game "Missle Command".



The story:

It¥s the year 2050. Bad hightech aliens want to conquer the earth 
(innovative, isn¥t it). They have jumped into the sol-system with a huge 
armada of battle- and colonyships to expand their star empire. In a first
bloody act they destroy the only human colony on Mars with a nuclear strike.
After that, the aliens, which are resistent against radioactive beams, want
to nuke out the industrial countries and other important countries enslave 
the rest of human kind.

But the humans are not less of protection. In the last decades the nations
have worked more and more in peace together, in the interest of exploration,
specially in space exploration.
In the year 2027 a big asteroid scratched only 2400 miles along earth.
In believing of this danger the nations builded a defense system, which can
destroy incoming objects. Now this defense-system has it¥s first mission,
not against asteroids, but against the launched alien nukes. You are the
commander of this system and the only hope of human kind. Do it so, that 
it¥s not the last mission.



Aim of the game:

You have to protect the different nations against alien nukes, which could
destroy the cities. For that work you have two weapon turrets. From level 
to level the attack waves become harder and longer and with more dangerous 
weapons like target-changing-missles, multiple warheads and deep flying 
ufos. But you can arm up, too. After every level you get money for every 
city, which has still alived. With that money you can tune up your weapon 
bases.

If you defend all countries the earth is save and you are the winner of
the game.

If you have done great work, you can enter your name into the highscore.
The highscore will be saved, if you leave the program from the title 
screen.

Note: You can delete the highscore by useing the program "Delete_Highscore"!



Playing the game:

In the titlescreen you can start the game by pressing the right mousebutton.
With the left one you can quit the game.

In game, your guntowers are aimed on the mousepointer.

With the right mousebutton you can fire the right turret and with the left
turret the left one. 

Between the levels you can tune up your weapon systems in the categories
firepower (the explosions get bigger), in bullet speed (the shoots fly 
faster), in targeting system (you can fire more shoots together, from one
turret), in deflector shild (the shield of the weapon bases gets stronger)
and in ammo store (you have more shoots for every level).

Every category can built up two times.

You have only to click on the pictures and you buy the wanted, even if you 
have enough money.

You leave the shop by clicking on "Quit".



The enemys:

Their are different forms of enemy missles.

1. The standard missles are always present. They are fired on a target and
   they never change it.
   Their explosion is different, from "firecracker" up to "heavy 
   destroying". As longer the tail is, as bigger is the explosions.

2. In Level 3, you will get fun with the target-changing-missles for the
   first time. They have a scattered, orange tail and they are hard to 
   hit, because they can switch on another city or base.
   They have medium blast power.

3. Later in game you have to hit the multiple warheads. They have green 
   tails and can split themself everytime. The explosive power is low up 
   to medium.

4. There are also missles, with combines the advantages of the target-
   changing missles and the multiple warheads. They have a bright blue
   tail.

5. Be careful of EMP-Weapons (Electro-Magnetic-Pulse-Weapons). They use a
   totally unknown technology and looks like a blue and violett ion-cloud.
   They are aimed on your turrets. They don¥t damage, but it seems they 
   opens a local space/time-gap with the effect of radiating a powerful 
   number of loaded particles by sucking rounded marterial.
   The effect: For the time the EMP is active, your electronic is jammed 
               and you cann¥t fire.

You are also attacked by flying saucers:

To destroy an ufo, you have to hit the ion-pulsedrivers on the lower side,
because other sides of these spaceships are protected too hard by shields!

1. The green scout ship is very fast and fires all types of standard 
   missles.

2. The red destroyer is loaded with target-changing-missles. Hit him!

3. The fast commando ships attacks you with EMP.

4. There are hard armored colony ships, equipted with multiple warheads. 

5. The battlestar is the biggest ship. It fires rounds and rounds of 
   dangerous target-changing multiple warheads. It has a enormous armor, 
   but a slow speed.



Now I wish you much fun with my first game!

If you have questions or improvemments please contact me:

Michael Roﬂkopf
Saarlandstraﬂe 25
44866 Bochum

Germany

Tel.: 02327 / 31546
