
 Disk War -- A game by Alessandro Pira

This is a simple "tennis - like" game. You control a disk which can attract
the ball. The goal is to make the ball go into the colored floor in the
opposite field.

The window of the game is 800x600. If you have an 800x600 screen I suggest
to try and fix the line 118 of init_gfx.cpp changing:

	screen = SDL_SetVideoMode(800,600,16,SDL_HWSURFACE);

into

	screen = SDL_SetVideoMode(800,600,16,SDL_HWSURFACE|SDL_FULLSCREEN);

and run the game fullscreen.


 - COMPILING -

Before compiling read the Makefile. There are some defines you may want to
change.
Basically you have two chioces: let the bitmaps be separate BMP files, or
compile them into the executable.

If you wanto to have the BMP files you will have to copy the directory
bitmaps/ into a safe place, and modify line 3 of Makefile.

If you want to compile images into the executable you should uncomment line
10 of Makefile, go into the directory xpm/ and run the script create_xpm.

After this you'll just have to "make clean; make" and you will have your
executable.


 - PLAYING THE GAME -

In this game you control a disk which can attract a little black ball.
The goal is to launch the ball in the opposite field making it go on the
scoring area.
Obviously, your opponent will try to do the same.

The keys are:

Left, Right, Up, Down: Move the disk
Enter: Activate attractor
P: Pause (press 'P' again to resume)
ESC: Quit game

You have to keep control of three things.

The first one is your life. Every time the ball goes into one of the two
colored squares in your field this goes down by one. If Life reaches zero
your disk will disappear and you will lose the match.

The second one is your attracting power. It goes down very fast when you
press ENTER, but it will recover fast when ENTER is released. Without
attracting power you cannot control the ball, and when it's low your
attracting power won't be very strong.

The third one is your fuel. It decreases every time you change your
direction or speed (i.e. when you press one of the arrow keys).
You can refuel your disk by passing in the corner of the field, on the
refueling area.
Never let your fuel go to 0. You will see your disk disappear and reappear
in the refueling area, leaving your field undefended, and giving your
opponent a fine opportunity to score.

The game is very simple, you will understand everything after the first
match.


 - FUTURE VERSIONS -

That is only the first version of this game, and it's NOT complete.
Unless you modify the code this version is for 1 player vs. IA, you cannot
choose colors, there is no sound, and the game brutally exits when the
match is over.

I don't know if I'll have time to complete it, so I decided to put online
what I've done so far.

Write me if you like this game. If I receive enough email asking me to
complete it (and hints about new features) I'll try to finish it.


 - THANKS -

Many thanks to Enrico Tassi for the gcc-3.3 patch, and for trying this
game.

  -- Alessandro Pira
     pira@cs.unibo.it


