
                              Lance-A-Lot
                              """""""""""

Copyright Notice
""""""""""""""""

Lance-A-Lot is Copyright 1994/95 Gordon JA Smith / Mystic Source Software.

This product is licensed for private, non-commercial, distribution and use.
Usage outwith these conditions requires that you obtain a written license
from the author.

Conditions of distribution and use include, but are not limited to:

1: This document file must always be included with the package.

2: No changes may be made to this document or executable parts of the
   package.

3: No part of this package may be included or used as ANY part of ANY
   commercial product unless by agreement with the author. This includes,
   but is not limited to, 'free' items such as magazine coverdiscs.

4: Distribution is allowed via any non-commercial means.

5: Distribution is specifically permitted via the 'Aminet' distribution
   network and any CD-ROM authorised by the Aminet administrators.

6: The author accepts no responsibility for any damage caused by the use
   of this package.

If in any doubt about any of these conditions you must contact the author
before distributing/using this software.

A charge may be made for a license for commercial distribution or use.


Introduction
""""""""""""

In another time, long before the medieval sport of jousting became popular, 
there lived a race of people who competed in a much more exciting pastime
using the flying horses which existed before this very violent sport wiped
them off the face of the earth.

Their sport was altogether more brutal and to add to the danger was often 
played over a pit of molten lava, many people lost their lives in the 
pursuit of quality leisure entertainment, if only they had Amigas.


Description
"""""""""""

For your enjoyment this most heinous of sports has been recreated on the 
Amiga for safe enjoyment in your own home.

Lance-A-Lot is a game of 10 rounds, each round has 3 levels giving a total 
of 30 waves, after each round a bonus level is played to gain additional 
points.

You play the part of Lance A. Lot on his grey stallion, can you defeat the 
evil hordes of the enemy and help Lance achieve his Impossible Dream of 
jousting supremacy.


Playing the game
""""""""""""""""

Firstly select the options screen by moving the joystick up/down and 
pressing fire to select. From here you can set up what in-game sounds you 
want and whether you prefer the joystick button or pressing up to fly.

Joystick controls are left/right and fire or up to flap your wings, also if 
you pick up the special gravity token, pulling down on the joystick will 
allow your horse to fold it's wings and plummet downwards, this is handy 
for aborting a clash with the enemy at the last minute if you chicken out.

On starting the game you see Lance on his grey horse, the enemy will then 
start to appear from the edges of the screen (it's wrap-around) and 
depending on the skill of the computer rider will attempt to attack you. On 
the early levels you will only encounter the novice riders and slower 
horses, you can tell what you are up against by the colour of the riders 
and horses as follows...

Riders-  Green-Novice    Red-Skilled     Purple-Expert
Horses-  Light-Slow      Medium-Normal   Dark-Fast

As the game progresses even the lowly novice riders gain more skill and 
experience so by the time you reach the end the pace is truly frantic.

On early levels you will also notice that the bubbling lava is covered by a 
platform so you can't accidentally fall in and get killed.

You must attempt to dismount the enemy riders by jousting with them on your 
flying horse, to win the joust your lance must be the higher of the two 
when you hit the enemy, this applies whether you attack from the front or 
from the rear (and you know what we call people who do that ;-) You will 
get 50/100/150 points for knocking off a green/red/purple rider or this will 
be doubled up to 100/200/300 points if done in a sporting manner.

The enemy rider will then plummet to earth (or into the lava later on), 
where he will stand waving his arms hoping for you to pick him up before he 
snuffs it, you are sporting aren't you? to encourage you to save lives you 
will receive 500 points if you pick him up, this is doubled if you manage 
to pick him up before he hits the ground and breaks his legs, it is after 
all just a sport, we don't want to kill anyone.

If you don't pick him up and he cops it then the enemy will send out a more 
skilful rider to avenge his death, if, on the higher levels, he falls into
the lava and dies this most nasty and unsporting death then the gods will
ensure that all the horses and riders on screen will become top rated and
attempt revenge, BEWARE!

After wave 6 the middle of the platform at the bottom crumbles and 
collapses into the lava meaning you have to play the game over a fiery pit 
of bubbling lava, as well as being a death trap for enemy riders it will of 
course incinerate your horse if you get too close. Later on, some of the 
other platforms may disintegrate too.

Of course you're going to need some help so from time to time, if the gods 
are smiling on you, a bonus token will appear. These have the following
effect...

           Wings/Lightning - Increases the top speed of your mount.
           Wings/Arrows    - Increases your mounts ability to manoeuvre.
           Wings/Down      - Adds a fold wings to drop action.
           Shield          - Protects you from attack for a short while.
           Heart           - An extra life of course.
           Bomb            - Nuke ALL enemy to end wave.


Extra Keys
""""""""""
         ESC - Quit Game          P - Pause Game


Bonus Round
"""""""""""

You have 15 seconds to collect all the flashing stars, each one is worth 
1000 points, if you clear the round there is an additional 5000 point 
bonus.


I hope you like Lance-A-Lot, the author can be reached by email at 
gordon@gjasmith.demon.co.uk or 2:250/107.106 on fidonet, please let
me know what you think of the game.

              Gordon JA Smith  -  Mystic Source Software
              """"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

