            -- Days of Thunder Documentation --            

Forward
-------
"Let me drive.  You build me a car and I'll win Daytona next year."

Pretty big words for a rookie driver.  Now, as Cole Trickle, you've got to
prove that you've got what it takes to best the hottest drivers on the
stock car circuit.  The odds are stacked against you, but there's no
turning back.  You made a promise, and it's time to keep it.

In DAYS OF THUNDER, you'll experience all the red-hot excitement of real
stock car racing.  Start off with some practice laps around an empty track.
 Then made a promise, and it's time to keep it.

Once you've proven yourself worthy in the qualifing round, it's time to
face the ultimate challenge: The Champion Cup. You'll go agaist the
toughest drivers in the business, who will do anything they can to make
sure you don't land in the winner's circle.  Winning the Cup will take
every ounce of strategy and skill you've got.

Welcome to the big time.

Installation of the Program
---------------------------
Days of Thunder must be installed before use.  Place the diskette labeled
"Disk 1" in any of your floppy drives.  Log to that drive, then type:
INSTALL and press the ENTER key. The installation program will ead you
step-bu-step through the process of installing Days of Thunder on your
system, then tell you how to start the installed program.

Starting Play
-------------
Once the game is loaded, press any key to skip past the title screen and
display the main menu.  The main menu features six selections:

PRACTICE - Take up to 10 laps around an empty track.
RACE     - The race for the Cup.  You must Qualify in order
           to race.
DETAIL   - The amount of Detail you wish to be shown.
CONTROL  - Select the control device you wish to use.
RACE LAPS- Set the number of laps from 10-100.
QUIT     - Exit to DOS

Driving
-------
Your car's controls are simple and familiar: a steering whee, a gas pedal,
and the brakes.  You'll be seated behind the wheel of your race car, with a
array of gauges displayed before you.  The controls include, in order from
left to right:

Oil Pressure
Tachometer
Engine Tempature
Fuel Flow Rate
Fuel Pressure

To help you as you race around the track, a digital display at the bottom
of the screen features a lap counter, speedometer, and lap timer.  Your
best lap time and current lap time is also shown on this readout.

Using your car's controls skillfully is what makes the difference between
winners and losers.  Take some time to familiarize yourself with the
controls (see the reference card for machine spechfic information), and be
sure to take a lot of practice laps at each race track.  Being familiar
with the track is another key to success in the race for the cup.

While out on the track, don't be surprised if you get bumped by other
drivers.  It's called "rubbing", and they'll tell you "rubbin' is racing". 
They're just trying to muscle their way past you.  As your car gets
damaged, the dashboads cracks, when the crack reaches the right side, your
car is so damaged elsewhere that it is now a useless heap of scrap metal. 
If you wreck your car, your sponsor will drop you and the season will be
over.

While on the track, you may view the racetrack's from any of eight external
vantage points.  All of the action is visible from any of these vantage
points, and the race continues as you watch.  The Outside Views Include:

Grandstand
Airship
South end of the racetrack
North end of the racetrack
Track
Outside
Front of car
Back of car

The keyboard computer reference lists the key commands for each of the
outside views listed above.  

A word to the wise: Don't spend too much time watching the race from an
outside view.  It's easy to become distracted and find yourself slamming
into a wall at 200 MPH.

You may also look around at the action on the track from inside your car. 
The inside Views show you the track through the fround, rear, and side
windows.  Most of the time you'll be concentracting on the road with the
frount inside view, which includes a display of your dashboard.

Practice
--------
Before you join the race for the cup, you're going to need practice.  Lots
of it.  Taking practice laps arouind a track is the only way to familiarize
yourself with your car and with the track itself.

Your car is waiting for you in the pit.  Start out of the pit and gradially
gain speed during your first lap.  Then you can give it everything you've
got.

To be a winning stock car driver, you need to know your car inside and out.
 You also need to know every inch of every track that you race on.  When
you're speeding around the track at over two hundred miles an hour,
surrounded by screaming metal, the last thing you want to encounther is a
suprise.

So practice, practice, practice.  When you're ready, it's on the next step:
Qualifing.

Qualifing
---------
Qualifying determines a driver's starting postition in the race.  It's a
race against the clock.  

Each driver takes three laps around the rack.  The driver with the fastest
lap time (the time to make a single trip around the track, not a average of
all three laps taken), beings the race at position 1 (in front of the
starting lineup).  

The driver with the second fastest lap time starts off at postition 2, and
so on, down to postition 8.

In order to get a starting postition better than 8, you're going to have to
push yourself to the limit.  Get out of the pit quickley.  Don't brush
against any of the sidewalls.  And above all, don't slow down!

Racing
------
Once you've proven yourself worthy in the qulifying round, it's time to
face the real thing.  Four racetracks await you: Daytona, Atlanta, Phoenix
and Talladega.  

To win the Cup, you must score more points during the four races than any
of your opponents.  It's not going to be easy.

Pit Stops
---------
It has been said that races are really won or lost in the pit.  A god pit
crew can make a big differnece in the outcome of a race.  You've got one of
the best crews around, and they can preform any of the seven differenct
function for you:

Tire Stagger Adjustment
Repair Body Damage
Clear Windshield
Fix Engine
Adjust Sensitivity
Adjuyst Brake Sensitivity
Refuel

VIEW MODE KEYS
--------------
Outside Views Key (on numeric keypad)
1 View from the back of your car
2 View from the south end of the track
3 View from the outside of your car
4 Airship view of the track
6 View from the grandstand
7 View from the front of your car
8 View from the north end of the track
9 View from the track

INSIDE VIEW KEYS
----------------
2 View out of the back window of your car
4 View out the left window
6 View out the right window
8 View out the front window
+ Zoom in
- Zoom out

-------------------------------------------------------------

That's about all you have to know to get into the game. Enjoy it!

                     Holy Grenade/[ACiD]
