
                               RANX HELP DOCS

                                 By Hitcher

OK, many have asked for help on playing RANX so..............

SCREEN LAYOUT:

First there are 2 Health meters....both on the left top of your screen.
One is for energy (symbolized by lightning) and the other is for
your body systems (indicated by a wrench).  These two conditions are also
displayed on the bottom of the screen with 2 other icons.  Also shown on
the screen is an inventory box (next to the meters). You start with
medicine.  Note: To use the medicine, make sure it is displayed then
hit the space bar bringing up a "finger."  Move the finger to the wrench
icon and press FB.  Ranx should place the medicine inside his chest.
This should improve his body systems.  For energy, see below.

SCREEN LAYOUT: ICONS

On the bottom of the screen is a icon window which is activated when you
meet someone AND you press SB to open the window & activate the "finger."

The ? icon is to talk to someone, next one is to threaten, third is to react
by "snorting" and the fourth is to laugh (smile icon).  The sub icons are as
follows:  $$ to buy things, the up/down arrows to select from your
inventory, the OK icon to give stuff away (item shown on your inventory). To
get out of the icon window, hit space bar or pull joystick down.  Note that
the purpose of the arrows IS to select something to give away performed by
hitting OK.

ENERGY:

As mentioned above, the medicine is used for your body but to get electrical
energy you must kick a lamp post by pulling the joystick in a SE direction
then zap yourself with the exposed electrical parts of the pole.  You can
also get energy by breaking a power box (indicated by a lightning bolt on
it).  The energy transfusion is automatic one the parts are displayed.

HINTS:

To get money (and you need it), go BACK into the subway, take the train,
avoid the ninja, take the escalator and find the parking meters.  Kick them
in to get money.  When the game first loads, you are coming out of the
subway and the "lady" on the left gives you the parking meter clue.  This
typlifies the game conversation interaction.  Also, on the right is a
"special" house/hotel and when you have the money, visit it for a lot of
intersting dialouge.  There are two floors in the hotel (use the elevator).

Watch out also as if you buy an item and somehow loose it or give it to the
wrong person, you apparently can't buy another.  This is true at least for
"tickets" that you buy to go to New York, etc.  

JOYSTICK MOVES:

The joystick works in combination with the firebutton.  Moves should be of
very quick duration otherwise holding the fb in too long might bring up the
icon finger (very annoying bug? in the game).  To search pockets for
inventory, JS up + FB.  Punch is JS right/left + fb.  Kicking is diagonal
down (SE or SW).  Jumping is NE or NW again with FB.  You can also use a
inventory item (e.g. throwing grenade) with NE or NW provided the item
is displayed in the inventory box.  Watch out as if you goof, you can throw
away your medicine.  

SAVE GAME:

The disk icon on the right can be clicked on with the finger to save/load a
game.  
