                 World Wrestling Federation Wresting

                          Hulk Hogan
                            vs.
                  Randy "Macho Man" Savage

                          History

Hogan is one of the most powerful men to ever hold the world  title. His
size and strength are awesome, and he seem to literally draw strength from
the cheers of his fans, whom he calls his "Hulkamaniacs."
 
   Randy Savage is a skilled grappler who combines flying maneuvers, high
impact moves, and a relentless thirst for victory. The relationship between
Hogan and Savage has been tumultuous to say the least. The two men started
out as enemies upon Savage's arrival in the WWF, engaging in a series of
brutal brawls during which Savage did everything in his power to take the
title.

   The mutual enmity was later buried one evening at a taping of Saturday
Night's Main Event. Macho Man was being brutally worked over by several of
Jimmy Hart's goons. Elizabeth, Macho Man's beautiful side-kick and manager,
ran backstage for help. The First Lady of Wrestling soon returned with the
Hulkster in tow, and both Hogan and Savage teamed up to clear the ring of
the Hart Foundation members. The two power-houses then turned to one
another and, with encouragement from Elizabeth, shook hands. This momentous
handshake signaled the creation of the "Mega- Powers," perhaps the most
awesome tag team in WWF history.

                                (1)

  The alliance lasted over a year, but was eventually shattered by Savage's
jealous nature. Convinced that Hogan had romantic interest in Elizabeth -
an accusation that Hogan vetemently denied - Savage turned on his partner
during a match against the Twin Towers,Big Bossman and Akeem.

  When Hogan defeated Savage for the WWF title at WrestleMania V, the Macho
Man blamed his defeat on Elizabeth, dumped her, and announced that his new
manager would be "Sensational" Sherry, known also as "Scary"Sherri
depending on your personal opinion. Savage has also vowed to battle Hogan
until the WWF title is once again his.

                         Moves and Maneuvers

  Hulk Hogan

  Basic

  Head Smash--The "macho Man" gets his brains scrambled, courtesy of a
series of up-close-and-personal encounters with the turnbuckle. True,those
turnbuckles are padded, but underneath that thin veneer is nothing but
metal!

  Wristlock-- Hogan grabs Savage by the hand, gives it a twist, and applies
the pressure.

  Stomp--The world's most macho wrestler has a close encounter with the
flat of the Hulkster's boot.
                                                                    
                               (2)

   Punch--Hogan clenches his fist and lays five fingers on Randy's kisser.
not strictly a legal move,but we'll overlook it,right?

   Elbow Smash--A Hulk-sized elbow crashes into Savage's head and sends a
shiver through the "macho Man."

   Major

   Shoulder Block--An NFL quality flying shoulder block makes Randy wish he
were wearing pads.

   Atomic Drop--Hogan hoist the "macho Man" high onto his shoulder,then
sends him crashing down onto an outstretched knee.

 Clothesline--The Hulkster hangs Savage out to dry with this stiff-arm
clothesline, and with Hogan's massive, python like arms, thats some
laundering!

 Suplex--there are a number of variations on this move. Once is the
Vertical Suplex, where Hogan bends Savage over in a front facelock, then
hoists him by the side of his trunks high in the air and falls backwards
crushing Savage beneath. There is also the belly to back version, which
starts like the atomic drop-Hulk lifts Savage onto his shoulder-but then
Hogan falls backwards, driving Macho's head and shoulders into the canvas!

  Super

  Legbomb--DiBise is down! The Hulkster gets a running start, bounces off
the ropes, and leaps into the air. He crashes down,leg-first, on his
opponent. Then he covers Savage for an attempted pin!

                                3

  Special Event

  The cheers of the crowd send adrenaline pumping through Hogan's body!
He's psyched! He's got the pump back, Jack! Look out, Randy Savage!

   "Macho Man" Randy Savage

  Basic

  Stomp--Mr Savage's boot wants to meet Mr. Hogan's head. Object
Punishment! Macho Man pummels Hogan with the flat of his foot.

  Punch--Thought it's not a legal move, both Hogan and Savage take
advantage of its effectiveness. Here, Savage sends a direct hit to Hogan's
face.

  Kick--Unlike a stomp which is legal since it uses the flat of the boot a
kick is executed with the toe of the boot.

  Snapmare--Savage grabs Hogan by the head and flips, or "mares," him
forward.
  
  Elbow Smash--The "Macho Man" possesses one of the most lethal elbows in
wrestling, and here he unleashes it on the Champs skull.

                                (4)

  Major

  BodyBlock--Savage uses his body as a projectile and launches himself at
Hogan's upper body! A direct hit can do some damage.

  Super AxHandle--One opf the most electrifying moves in pro wrestling.
Savage throws Hogan from the ring, and then scampers, cat-like, to the top
rope and crashes to the arena floor, both fists slamming into the Champ's
head and shoulders along the way!

  Kneedrop--Hogan is flat on his back, so Randy leaps high into the air and
drops, knee-first, onto Hogans throat and chest. That'll choke you up!

  Double Chop--Similar to the Super AxeHandle, except this time the "Macho
Man" brings his clenched fists down on Hogan while the Champ is standing in
the ring.

  Super

  Savage Elbow--The most dangerous elbow drop in wrestling is delivered by
Randy Savage off the top rope! Can even Hogan get up from this?

  Special Event

  "Sensational" (or scary, if you like) Sherri distracts the Champ while
Savage punches him from behind. What acouple of sneaks!

                               (5)

                              Empty

                               (6)

                           Hulk Hogan
                               vs.
                  "Million Dollar Man" Ted DiBiase

                            History

  The conflict between Hogan and DiBiase is easy enough to understand.
DiBiase is convinced that money can buy anything---even the WWF title.
Hogan's responce: "No Sale."

  DiBiase has made several attempts to sieze the WWF strap. First he
offered to simply purchase the title and belt from the Hulkster, offering
millions both to the champ and his favorite charities. After a week of
agonizing soul searching, Hogan appeared on television with his answer.
"Hell No"

  Not to be deterred, DiBiase took another approach, purchasing the
services of Andre the Giant from manager Bobby "The Brain" Heenan. The
Giant soon got a title shot at Hogan on prime time network TV, with DiBiase
at his corner. But the "Million Dollar Man" wasn't taking any chances. Upon
learning that referee Dave Hebner had a twin brother, DiBiase hired him to
create havoc at the title match. The strategem worked,too, as the "evil
twin" counted Hogan's shoulder down (despite the fact that they were
clearly off the mat), and the belt was awarded to Andre, who promptly
handed it over to DiBiase.

  Once again, however, DiBiase was foiled. WWF President Jack Tunney
announced that while the WWF was recognizing Andre's victory, the title
could not be handed over to someone else in this

                               (7)

fashion. As a result the belt was held up at a scheduled for WrestleMania
IV. At that tournament, Andre succeed in getting both Hogan and himself
disqualified early, while the Millio Dollar Man worked his way through the
ranks.

  The final round of the tournament came down to a match between DiBiase
and Randy Savage, during which Hogan came to ringside to keep Andre from
interfering on DiBiase's behalf. During a wild finish, Hogan knocked out
DiBiase with a chair and Savage pinned him to win the belt.

  DiBiase has never forgiven Hogan for costing him the title and has vowed
to use any methods - including his native wrestling skill, which is
considerable - to finally take the prize that has, so far eluded him.

                      Moves and Maneuvers

  Hulk Hogan

  Basics 

  Punch--Again it's not a legal move, but are you gonna tell these guys
about it? Hogan orders up a knuckle sandwich for DiBiase.

  Kick--The Hulkster deposits a good toe into Million Dollar Man

                               (8)

  Chop--Also known as a "knife edge," Hogan uses the flat and edge of his
stiffhand and delivers a sharp, karate-like blow to DiBiase chest.

  Wristlock--Hogan pours on the pain as he keeps the "Million Dollar Man"
locked up.

  Elbow--Hulk drives his elbow into DiBiase's pampered body What a way to
make a living!

   Major

   Bodyslam--Hogan hoists DiBiase into the air and slams him onto the
canvas.

   Clothesline--The Champ catches Ted across the chest with an extended
right and delivers ashot that could be felt all the way to DiBiase's summer
residence!

  Giant Boot--The Hulkster sends DiBiase into the ropes, then lifts his
huge right foot in time for the Million Dollar Man to run into it!

  Atomic Drop--Hogan lifts DiBiase onto his shoulder and brings him
crashing down, assets first, on his knee. Hogan may not be a chiropractor,
but he can sure rearrange a spine!

  Super

  Legbomb--The most awsome legdrop in wrestling turns the "Million Dollar
Man" into the Million Dollar Pancake! But can he hold him for the 3-count?

                              (9)

  Special Event

  Once again, the Hulkamaniacs inspire their Champion to new heights. How
does he make his neck get so big anyway?

  "Million Dollar Man" Ted DiBiase
   
   Basic

  Chop--DiBiase attempts to cut Hulkster down to size with a series of
vicious knife edged blows.

  Head Smash--"million Dollar Man" drives Hogan's head into the turnbuckels
over and over.

  Chinlock--A rear chinlock keeps Hogan off his feet and wears him down at
the same time.

  Punch--Fist vs. Face. Fist wins.

  Armlock--DiBiase keeps the pressure on by traping Hogan's huge python
like arm in his grip.

  Major

  Kneedrop--DiBiase leaps high in the air and lands, knee first, on a prone
Champion. Whoof!
 
  ElbowSmash--DiBiase is skilled in the use of his elbow to deliver
punishment.

                              (10)

  Clothesline--Though his arms aren't as big as the Hulks, DiBiase knows
how to get maxinum use out of what he has. He catches Hogan perfectly here,
knocking the Champ off his feet with a stiff arm jolt!

  WallStreet Stomp--Just cause a guy's got money doesn't mean he can't
stomp! DiBiase puts the boots to the Champ here.

  Super

  The Crash--One of the many finishers employed by the "Million Dollar
Man," the Crash is a fist drop maneuver in which DiBiase falls toward his
prone victim with his fists cocked so it makes contact with Hogan's chin
ashe lands.

  Special Event

  Virgil, Dibiase's body guard, interferes in the match, distracting Hogan
while his employer sneaks up from behind!

                               (11)

  Strategy--Some Tips

  When high on DPs, revert to defensive wrestling until the DPs drop below
the danger point.

  Don't be afraid to use your Special Event (see the section called
"Special Event") when your wrestler is in trouble - thats what it's there
for

  If your wrestler is low on power and doesn't seem likely to take the
match, wrestle for the draw, especially if title is at stake. There's no
shame in a tie.

  Start out with basic moves, until your wrestler has built up sufficient
power and inflicted some serious damage, then move on to Major Moves.

  Playing slowly and conservatively may not be the best wat to win a match.
Sure, you can see what your opponent is doing and plan your moves to
counter his strategy. But sometimes the best strategy is to be aggressive
and keep your opponent hoping. Put the pressure on him by choosing your
moves quickly, and he's bound to make a fatal mistake.

                             (12)

