HEY THERE!  

You want to be part of a HUGE project?

You want your name on something BUFF?

Well, if you're an artist, musician, or even a programmer, I need you for my
next big idea.

I need one or two artists, one who can animate and one who can do landscapes,
a musician who works in four channel Mods, and someone with at least some basic
programming skills.

My idea is to stick the four or five of us together and create a HUGE RPG with
this system (it can be done, theoretically...).  The storyline?  You, a normal
guy from a normal town, is somehow sucked millions of light years away, and
about two hundred years into the future, to a planet which is on the verge of
dying.  You need to find out what has killed this planet (multiple endings,
hehe) and bring this information home.  Plenty of fighting security guards and
strange, mutated creatures.  The idea of a portable computer, storing all the
info you've gathered.  Lots of people to talk to, and maybe even the ability to
assume different roles throughout the game!  It can all be done!

But, I want to find the BEST.  I want to see your drawing skills, hear your
music skills, and experience your scripting skills.  Here's what I want you do
to:

	1.	Make a ten-level adventure.  There must be at least ten levels and no
		more than fifteen.
	2.	You must have at least five hand-drawn or self-rendered images for the
		maps.
	3.	There must be at least five distinct walking characters (including
		yourself) each with at least three distinct frames per animation.
	4.	At least two Global Variables must be used to make a simple storyline.
	5.	At least one simple shop must exist, that sells a weapon, a piece of
		armor, and a healing item.
	6.	There must be at least one fight.
	7.	The music, if you have the ability (because I know I don't), should be
		of original composition.  If it is, you get brownie points in the
		music department.  If not, oh well.

I'll be looking for sharp graphics, well-animated characters, catchy music, and
great storylines.  Once you finish these materpieces, EMail them to:

	bintzer@erols.com
	
With the subject "CTW Entry". Or, put it up for FTP and EMail me at:

	uv334@freenet.victoria.bc.ca
	
which I read more often anyway.  In fact, if you do send your adventure to
Erols, EMail the Freenet account, saying you did so.

By the end of October I hope to have enough entries to make a pick.  I'll ask
the best creators to join me in this perilous quest, where none shall return
alive.  Your names will be put in the game, you'll get shares of whatever profit
you get, you'll support the buffest computer ever concocted in West Chester,
Pennsylvania, and you'll be known until THE END...OF TIME!

Thanks!

John Bintz
Internext Software
