
                                Team Tetris
                                   v1.33

                             By Jonathan Horan
                             -----------------

Team Tetris is a new way of playing the classic "Tetris" game. It involves
two players playing on the same grid co-operatively. If you want to play
Tetris on your own or against a rival, there are plenty of other Tetris
games available as shareware or in the public domain.

In order to play, a joystick must be plugged into the mouse port. If you get
seriously addicted to this game, then I suggest that you purchase a
"RoboShift" or similar Joystick-Mouse switcher. I broke my Atari ST mouse
port once by continually connecting and dis-connecting my mouse, so BUY A
JOYSTICK SWITCHER, it's worth the cost.

Controls.
---------

Both players use a joystick, the controls being arranged thus:


                               Up:No action


 Move left                                                        Move right


                             Down: Drop shape



                                                  FIRE BUTTON: Rotate shape.


While the players' shapes are still falling, it is possible to manoeuvre the
shapes to occupy the same space, i.e. to merge them, thus creating lots of
different shapes with which to experiment. This is one of the keys to
achieving a high-score in this game.


Hard Disk Installation
----------------------

Team Tetris is HD-Installable, like all games should be. Simply copy the
files TeamTetris,TeamTetris.info and the drawer TTfiles into the area of
your hard disk that you require. Then it is simply a case of Double-Clicking
the icon, in the directory in which the game was placed.
I may include a HD-Install program one day for people who are not too well
acquainted with AmigaDOS or their Hard-Disk.
By the way, Workbench is better than Windows or OS/2.


Distribution.
-------------

This game is freely distributable i.e. PD and it's okey-dokey to copy it as
long as...

1. No file is altered (You must keep the original high-score table intact if
   you wish to distribute this disk)
2. The files are not packed in any way. Packing programs just makes life
   difficult for people with large hard disks, increasing the loading time
   unnecessarily. However, I do permit the files to be archived using LhA,
   for bulletin board distribution purposes.
3. It is not put on a disk together with pornographic, violent or otherwise
   immoral material.
4. You are a nice person. One day I will exterminate all nasty people.

Epilepsy warning.
-----------------

Medical evidence suggests that certain sequences of images, strobes or
otherwise flickering lights or looking at cathode ray tubes (for example,
watching Neighbours or playing Team Tetris) may provoke epileptic fits. If
nausea, dizziness, blurred vision, migraine or other ill feeling begins to
arise while playing Team Tetris, switch off immediately and go for a lie
down with a hot cup of cocoa.
Don't play on a computer for more than a couple of hours at a time.
Wearing an eyepatch can help reduce the likelihood of an epilepsy attack.


Advice on life
--------------

Listen to lots of rock music. It will help to release your anger.
Eat "Harvest Crispy Clusters" at breakfast. They are truly delicious.
Although the initial entertainment value can be great, using your Amiga to
   beat your sister/brother about the head can be detrimental to your
   happiness.
Don't listen to people who tell you that Jungle Music is good.
Do short out the PSUs used in school science experiments. Ours explode.
Grow your hair long and headbang to Metallica's "Enter Sandman". It is an
   uplifting experience not to be missed.


Disclaimer.
-----------

The author (Jonathan Steven Horan) takes absolutely no responsibility
whatsoever for any injury; discomfort; loss of hair, sleep or money;
incurred as a result of using this game and its accompanying files.
So, if your companion inadvertently socks you one on the nose because you
made a right bodge of playing this game, or you develop a mental disease
that causes you to perform perverted acts with sheep, it's not my fault.


Seriously Essential Software (some of which I haven't got)

Lightwave / Imagine 3
DirectoryWork
Tanks 'n Stuff
Skidmarks
Personal Paint 4
Doom (Release this game on the CD32, please)
Llamatron
Final Copy II
Team Tetris
Pinball Fantasies
Super Sound 4
Blitz Basic 2 / AMOS
Spectrum Emulator v2.0 (If you have this program, I have loads of Snapshot
                        files, if you want them)

