
  ------------------------
  Starting Helios Defender
  ------------------------

  This game requires 2 meg of memory, at least 1 meg of which
  must be chip memory.

  If you have a 1 meg chip machine, you may have to start Defender
  by booting from its own disk rather than using the Workbench icon.

  Otherwise you may have insufficient free chip memory to run the
  game unless you close down all other software.

  See the bottom of this file for a description of the game along
  with some VITAL hints and tips.

  -------------------------------
  Helios re-programmable Defender
  -------------------------------

  Helios Defender is the first of a planned series of classic
  arcade games developed on the Amiga using an all-new games
  programming language called HELIOS.

  The idea of this range of games is that they should introduce
  a new concept to Amiga gamers: the "reprogrammable" game.

  These games have been carefully designed so that all the vital
  parts of the game's appearance and "playability" can be easily
  changed without expert knowledge.

  This means that even non-programmers can make considerable
  creative changes to the sound, graphics and gameplay.  Now you
  really can make your own version of an arcade classic......

  Most important is that the HELIOS language is not only easy to
  learn and use, but also very fast and powerful, so the Helios
  reprogrammable games are among the fastest and best of their
  kind on the Amiga.  You now have the chance to program your own
  version of a very fast and professional game, not just a limited
  beginners demonstration.  If you play level 9 of Defender on
  a fast Amiga you will appreciate that the Helios programming
  system is to all intents and purposes as fast as pure assembly
  language.  Try comparing it with other versions of the game.

  In the hope of encouraging new programmers to try their hand at
  writing creative software, Helios Software provide a good range
  of options at a very affordable price.  We can provide a simple
  re-programmable version of the game for £15, and for only £25
  we supply the full version, complete with commented source code
  AND Helios compiler.  Even if you do not wish to try making your
  own version, these Helios games provide Amiga gamers with good,
  highly playable versions of the old arcade classics at a very
  reasonable price of £8 per game.

  If you are not sure about trying the full reprogrammable version,
  Helios will supply the non-expert version and allow you to upgrade
  later. The simple version has all game parameters programmable,
  along with a set of easy-to-modify graphic and sound files.  Using
  this version of the software you can use any Amiga paint package to
  change all the game graphics and you can also use your own sound
  samples for the sound effects as well as using your own intro music.
  The speed and behaviour of the various game dynamic elements are
  easily changed, allowing you to change the way the game plays merely
  by typing numbers in a simple configuration file.

  If you are interested in trying your hand at Amiga game programming
  these Helios reprogrammable games offer an ideal opportunity to get
  started.  You can get an easy introduction to the general concepts
  of game programming by modifying an existing program which already
  works.....

  -------------------------------------
  About the HELIOS programming language
  -------------------------------------

  The new HELIOS language has been designed specifically to make
  Amiga programming easier for beginners, and at the same time to be
  faster and more powerful than Basic or C.  The whole of the Helios
  system is written in assembly language for speed, and you can write
  assembly language directly within the Helios code if you wish.

  Learning to program the Amiga in Helios is easier than most other
  languages because Helios has a direct "interpretive" mode which
  allows you to type in simple commands (or programs) and get an
  instant response from the computer.  This instant feedback is
  ideal for learning and creative experimentation.

  Helios has a large set of built in Amiga-specific commands to
  carry out many common programming tasks such as opening windows
  and getting user input. Several libraries of commands, totalling
  over 1000 functions, are available to take the hard work out of
  most general programing tasks.

  Helios has been developed over 5 years and runs reliably on all
  Amigas from OS 1.2 onwards.  The language is available in a variety
  of specifications so that anyone can get a system to suit the Amiga
  they use and the amount they wish to spend.

  The full Helios professional system consists of a fast immediate
  interactive interpreter, a compiler, and an extremely powerful text
  editor which compares favourably with professional "stand-alone"
  editors.  These functional units are integrated into a single very
  powerful program which gives the most user friendly and productive
  programming environment yet seen on the Amiga.  Helios is available
  also as a stand-alone compiler for use with your own text editor,
  and although this version lacks the many convenient features of the
  integrated environment it is fully equivalent in terms of compiler
  features and power.

  ------------------------
  Ordering Helios products
  ------------------------

  All Helios products are only available direct from Helios Software
  with the result that we can keep prices down and provide excellent
  value for money.  You get no fancy packaging but instead you get a
  fast direct service and personal contact with the people who create
  the software.

  We also like to maintain a direct contact with our customers to help
  with problems and get feedback fron users which helps us improve the
  software. If you have any queries about Helios products, please let
  us know: we have a policy of continual upgrades to our software, and
  YOUR suggestions and questions may help us make the software better
  for everyone.

  Helios Software
  163 Huthwaite Road
  Sutton-in-Ashfield
  Nottinghamshire
  NG17 2HB
  England

  Telephone 01623 (Mansfield) 554828

  Next day delivery service.

  Credit card payment by telephone accepted.

  -----------------------
  Other programming tools
  -----------------------

  Helios Software are European distributors for software products from
  The Puzzle Factory:

  ReSource V6.0

  ReSource is an excellent interactive Amiga disassembler, allowing
  detailed interactive inspection of disassembled code as well as
  comprehensive tools for generating source code for re-assembly.

  Macro68

  Macro68 is the fastest and most fully featured professional assembler
  available for the Amiga, with a host of configurable functions and
  an excellent AREXX interface.

  Helios Software also specialise in Forth systems for the Amiga.


  ****************
  Playing Defender
  ****************

  In case you have never played Defender before here are a few simple
  guidelines.  Even if you do know how to play Defender, please read
  the notes below which detail the special features of this extremely
  fast and demanding version of the game.

  --------
  Defender
  --------

  You control an ultra fast fighting ship in which you fly through a
  horizontally scrolling alien landscape.  So far, so simple....

  Your task is to protect ten humanoids who are patrolling the planet
  surface, and your enemy takes the form of a horde of aggressive green
  aliens who wickedly attempt to kidnap these humanoids - and to kill
  you, of course.....

  You are free to shoot anything on screen, but you only get points for
  killing aliens.  You will find that killing your humanoid friends can
  have very nasty repercussions, especially when the last one is killed,
  so do take care....  (Actually, when your last humanoid is killed, all
  landers will automatically mutate instantly and the planet will become
  a much less hospitable place.  You will then need to survive this harsh
  scenario until the next time a new shipment of humanoids arrives.)

  The alien landers will pick up humanoids and attempt to lift them to
  the top of the planet's atmosphere.  It is important that you shoot
  a lander before it succeeds in this mission, since having done so it
  will turn into a very aggressive "mutant" which attacks you with a
  demented and merciless vigour, gibbering uncouthly as it does so.

  If you shoot a lander while it is carrying a humanoid the lander will
  explode and release the humanoid, which falls back slowly to the planet's
  surface.  You must try to collect the humanoid before he crashes to his
  doom on the surface below, and you do this by flying into him.  This will
  cause the humanoid attach himself to your ship, and allows you to carry
  him below the ship until you drop him back to the ground by flying low.

  You can carry as many humanoids as you like below your ship, and if you
  are really very cowardly you can even use then as a form of "humanoid
  shield" to stop alien shots reaching your ship. This use of humanoids
  is very unkind, but quite useful......!

  If humanoids are released from a great height they will certainly die
  when they hit the ground, but if you shoot the carrying lander while it
  is still close to the ground, the humanoid will fall back the short
  distance to the surface unharmed.

  While all this is going on, the landers will fire a few desultory shots
  at you, which you are advised to avoid or shoot before they hit you.
  The lander artillery is weak to start with (not too weak!), but do not
  be too disappointed - they do get better as the battle progresses!

  To further distract your attention, pulsating alien bombers fly around
  from time to time, annoyingly laying destructive minefields which you
  need to avoid with great care.  The mines are small and hard to see in
  the heat of battle, but quite lethal.

  On later levels you will encounter pods which release a number of nasty
  swarmers when shot: you MUST kill these pods and you have no choice then
  but to face the swarmers in a battle to the death - often your death.

  You have a few smart bombs which kill everything on screen, but use these
  sparingly because the later levels are tough and will require the liberal
  and intelligent use of smartbombs for survival.  By the way, do take care
  when using a smartbomb on a pod!  Interestingly, the smart bomb will just
  crack open the pod and eject at high velocity a few very angry swarmers
  who resent having been so rudely woken up.  However, the good news is
  that smartbombs do kill swarmers.....

  If you spend too long touring about without clearing all the aliens, a
  zone clearing baiter will arrive and chase you until you or he gets
  killed.  What is worse is that this nasty enemy reappears again and again
  at regular intervals, getting more aggressive every time, so listen very
  carefully for the tell-tale sound which he makes when he appears.

  After 9 levels of this gentle stroll through alien skies, if you are
  still alive, you are returned to level one to repeat your triumph, but
  this time the aliens have seen you before and prepare themselves more
  carefully.  It gets harder all the time.......

  -------------------------------------------------------
  Special tricks, features, and hints for Helios Defender
  -------------------------------------------------------

  Helios Defender is much faster and tougher than the original game, or
  any other Amiga version of the game, and there are one or two things
  you really need to know to help you survive.....

  First of all, if this game really is just too fast and frantic for you,
  please do not give up, but take the opportunity to use the reprogramming
  facility to create a version of the game which you find playable and just
  sufficiently challenging.  This game is meant to give YOU enjoyment, so
  please experiment and build yourself a game which gives you the thrill
  of battle without the disgust of constant humiliating defeat.  You are
  in control of your own fate in this game, and of course eventually you
  might even want to create the ultimate challenge for yourself and your
  friends!

  Here are a few general hints and tips.

  You can engage "autofire" on your laser weapon by holding down the fire
  button, but take care when doing this not to wipe out too many humanoids.
  In general you need to use your weapons sparingly and with control, but
  there comes a time in every game where all-out blasting is the only way.

  Your ship is fast - it NEEDS to be! - and you must take care to move in
  a steady and controlled fashion, picking your way with accuracy.  You
  will not get far flying around at great speed with all weapons blazing,
  so remember that Defender is a game of precision, strategy, and control.

  When landers or mutants are forming they initially appear in a spinning
  "phased" or dematerialised form, and this gives you a brief chance to
  position yourself before the fighting starts.  Make good use of this.

  Your ship is also "phased" onto the screen, and you can move while still
  only partially formed.  It is vital to use this ability to get away from
  the enemy while you are still invulnerable - especially on later levels.

  If you use a smartbomb on landers or mutants which are still "phased"
  the blast will not have any effect on them, although it will still kill
  all other aliens on the screen.  In general you should take care not to
  waste smartbombs while any of the enemy are still "phased", but this is
  sometimes impossible.

  Try to use smartbombs sparingly and with intelligent control rather than
  as a panic weapon - and do not break the spacebar of your keyboard!

  The baiter makes a characteristic sound when it forms, and being very
  sneaky it always forms well away from your position, accelerating towards
  you as it seeks you out.  The baiter "formation" sound is not too loud,
  so you must pay close attention to get early warning of a baiter attack.

  Kill bombers early in a level to give you freedom to move that ultra
  fast ship of yours in open spaces......and try to avoid going anywhere
  at full speed except when making a dash to save your last humanoid.

  Only burst open pods when you have cleared everything else, giving you
  vital space to run away without colliding with other enemies.

  Score as much as you can on the easy levels, earning and storing up extra
  lives and smartbombs for level 9 - you will certainly need them!

  Make good use of the scanner, especially when all your humanoids are
  killed......

  View the game play area consciously as a whole world, and keep note of
  what is going on throughout the extent of this world.  Some other versions
  of Defender make the game into a slow sequential progression from one
  side of the world to the other, but in Helios Defender everything happens
  more quickly and in many places simultaneously.  This is why you have a
  much faster ship than usual - to get quickly to any part of your world.

  Listen carefully for sound effects and take note of on-screen messages.
  You need these clues to be aware of impending threats while engaging the
  current enemy, and you need to pay particular attention to the scream of
  abducted humanoids and the merry sounds of the incoming baiter or mutant.

  Remember that you only get new humanoids on levels 1 and 5 in each round,
  so always take care to protect your last couple of living humanoids!

  An enemy shot hitting a humanoid carried below your ship will kill the
  poor fellow instantly but will not hurt your ship.  You may feel immorally
  obliged to employ a "humanoid shield" like this in really tough battles,
  but please remember that ALL humananoids you are carrying will be killed
  together by a single alien hit.

  Go for a big score on the first easy level....allow each of the humanoids
  to be abducted and rescue them all to get a good bonus and extra lives etc.
  It will never be this easy again!

  -------
  Scoring
  -------

  Destroying Lander  150  points
  Destroying Mutant  150  points
  Destroying Swarmer 150  points
  Destroying Baiter  200  points
  Destroying Bomber  250  points
  Destroying Pod     1000 points

  Allowing humanoid to fall safely to ground 250 points

  Picking up humanoid 500 points

  Setting humanoid back onto planet surface 500 points

  Bonus of 100 x level points for each living humanoid at end of each level

  Extra life and extra smart bomb every 10000 points

  Good Luck!

