                           EMMANUELLE

Typed in by LOWERCASE. Edited by PARASITE.


Emmanuelle has landed in Rio. This is where I'll start looking for
her. I can move around as I see fit, using the regular air service
lines, sea lines, or the private helicopters which some hotels
will put at my disposal.

I will certainly have to fight off jealous husbands and defend
myself against all sorts of crooks. I am unarmed and will fight
bare-handed.

I must at all times keep a close eye on the three personal score
counters which will affect my actions.

MONEY
There are numerous expenses and information is very expensive.
I'll fill out my wallet at the casino, mixing business with
pleasure.

ENERGY
I really must keep my physical efforts to a minimum (this includes
pleasures of the flesh!!!) pparently there are potions which keep
me going.

EROTICISM
My natural charm and my experience with women will come in very
useful, but they won;t be enough. Only by keeping strictly to the
three laws dictated by Mario will I be able to increase my erotic
potential, the only thing which could attract Emmanelle to me.

Women
My experience has shown me that to establish any sort of contact
you have to tell thgem what they want to hear right from the
start. Many of them will help me in my search. They are all over
the place, in the hotels, airports on the beaches in the
casino....

Your aim is to take the same plane as emmanuielle withj an erotic
potential of between 75% and 100%.
The purse measures your money. Top value 25000
The champagne glass measure your energy on a scale of 1 to 100.
You are allowed three full glasses.
Your erotic opotential is represented by the lipstick on a scale
of 1 to 100.

You can buy things throughout the game
Toucan                   3000
1lift in a chopper       2000
1plane ticket            1000
1 drum                   1000
Information about Emmanuelle 1000
1 cigar                  500
Opera glasses            500
Information about Emmanuelle at the bar 500
Help from the porter     500
info from girls at bar   200
1 whisky                 200

You are free tio go as you choose to any or all of the towns of
Rio.

Hotels
You can explore the lobby take the lifts and inspect the floors
and the keyholes

Airports
You can buy plane tickets here for other island towns..choosing
Paris ends the game.

Beaches
Fun places..check out the sand and the water

To go to a precise spot click the cupid pointer over it.

Several objects are to be acquired for the smooth running of the
game. Don't hesitate to pawn them to get what you want.
Beware pick pockets (in the town).
