                        ENDURO RACER

Typed in by CHUCKLES. Edited by PARASITE.


Once Enduro Racer has loaded the game will flip between the title
screen and the high score table.

The  game  can  be controlled by using  the  joystick  or  mouse.
Pressing the button on the joystick or the left mouse button will
start the game.

CONTROLS

The controls for joystick/mouse are:

                            Throttle
                                |
                                |
       Left ---------------------------------------- Right
                                |
                                |
                             Wheelie

Brakes:        Joystick                 Mouse
              Fire Button            Left Button

TIME  gives the time you have left (in seconds) to  complete  the
      current stage.

SCORE gives your score.

STAGE tells you which of the five stages you are on.

SPEED gives your speed in Kilometers per Hour.

HINTS & TIPS
Avoid other riders, rocks, trees, water etc.

Remain on the road (in stage 3 there is water on each side of the
road) in order to maintain maximum speed.

When you go over the jumps you will lose speed unless you pull  a
wheelie  before  reaching the jump.  You may also go  around  the
sides of the jumps, though this may slow you down.

There are 5 Stages taking you through 5 different landscapes.

END OF GAME AND HIGH SCORE
At the end of a game the following will appear on screen:

               STAGE          RECORD         PLAYER
                 1            0 47 27        0 50 27
                 2            0 55 00          62
                 3            0 59 99
                 4            0 59 99
                 5            0 59 99
TOTAL                         4 42 24        0 50 27
In the RECORD column the number of the stage is given followed by
the fastest time for that stage.

In the PLAYER column your times for the stages are given. For the
final  stage  that you were unable to complete  a  percentage  is
given showing how far you got through that stage.

If  you  get onto the High Score Table then you will be  able  to
enter your name by using the keyboard.

Select ED when you have finished entering your name.
