                            GAMES HINTS

Typed in by ???. All taken from magazines. Edited by PARASITE.


ARKANOID
When the program has loaded, but before the title screen changes, hold
down the shift key and type in DEATHSTAR followed by return.

The game will play normally but if you press the space key you will be
immediately transported to the next screen.

When you have lost all your lives and are at the high score table (even if
you don't have a high score), you can type PAJ to return to the screen you
lost you last life on.

ARKANOID : REVENGE OF DOH
When all your lives are lost and the title screen is desplayed, hit the
CAPS LOCK and type MAGENTA. Now when you start a new game, press 's' to
open up the gates either side of the screen so you can progress to the
next...But even more useful is this: loose all your lives and return to
the title screen, hit CAPS LOCK and then type MAGENTA again, only this
time type in DALEY88 to take you right to the last screen.

GAUNTLET
Providing you have the original Gauntlet you can get up to some
great trickery.

Load Gauntlet 2 as normal, choose players and start the game. Let all the
players die. Place Gauntlet 1 data disk in the drive and start a new game
with the same characters. The screen you start on will look a bit weird,
but it will be full of potions.

There is one problem: you have to wait for all the walls to turn into
exits before you can leave the room. Remember to replace the Gauntlet 2
disk in the drive before exiting.

GAUNTLET 2
When your character opens a locked treasure chest hold down the "HELP" key
then open a second treasure chest with the "INSERT" key held down. A
golden cross appears instead of the second chest, and this cross boosts
your health points 50,000 and gives you reflective and super shots for the
rest of the level.

POWERPLAY
If you're feeling really silly, jast remove disk B from the disk drive,
while playing the game and insert a blank disk. Now the same question will
keep comoing up.

RAMPAGE
If you're on the last building and a cloud of dust appears under it punch
in any direction and keep your finger on the fire button until the next
screen is displayed, whereupon you will be ableto climb up an invisible
building which is in the same place as the last building on the previous
screen.

SUPER SPRINT
On track eight, instead of racing, turn around and position your car just
before the finish line. Point it downwards, and when a drone zooms by,
accelerate and drive it into the wall. It'll crash but it wont be replaced
Repeat the process for the other two cars, and you'll be free to drive
around at leisure, picking up as many spanners and bonus points as you
like. Don't forget to drive around in the opposite direction, though,
otherwise you'll finish the race.

TEST DRIVE
If you fancy a high score with out actually playing the game simply carry
out the following steps.

1). Load FIRST WORD or some other WP and insert game disk B.
2). Set the directory to *.*
3). Open the highscores file and edit
4). Save the file once you've finished

Note: The high score shouldn't exceed 99,999 and the name must be 15
characters or less. If you want to change the car for a particular score
simply use the following codes (must be in lower case):
          p911t - Porche 911 Turbo
          vette - Corvette
          lotus - Turvo Espirit
          rossa - Ferrari Testerossa
          conta - Lambourgini Contach

WHERE TIME STOOD STILL.
First of all pick up the bag, bottle, medical supplies and rope which are
dotted around the plane crash site. Put everything but the rope into the
bag - you need that to rescue Clive. Get Gloria's compact and make your
way to the rope bridge. Rescue Clive usibg the rope.When everyone is safe,
cross the bridge and follow the cliff edge in a north-westerly direction
without going up any slopes. When the characters get to an open plain,
head north until the swamp is reached.

After crossing the swamp let everyone eat, drink and rest. Refill the
bottle and head towards the village. Locate the chief and drop Gloria's
compact using the second box, and then pick up the food and roast pork.
Put the food in the bag and walk north until you reach another cliff. Find
a hole in the cliff, drop the pork and quickly run past. Cross the
waterfall and turn the music off so you can hear the trump of approaching
dinosaurs. Move down the slope and run in a southerly direction until you
reach a river. Follow the river south around the village and go eat untill
 you find a religious building and rest. Finally run east towards another
cliff. Find the slope that leads up into the mountains and make your way
to freedom.

BAAL
Six warriors are not enough to bypass the hazards, or to do any serious
exploring, in the game. You are awarded an extra warrior every 5000 points
To gain points you must destroy monsters. It is possible to find a con-
venient refuelling location thats got monsters near by. Simply by moving
between the fuelling depot and the monsters (making sure you shoot them),
you can build up points and warriors easily. The process is tedious, but
having scores of warriors makes the game less frustrating. Such a place
exists at co-ordinates 08-49 on the first level.

BUBBLE BOBBLE
A few hints : If you get to level 20 without losing any men you will see
a set of doors appear get these and you will be transported to the secret
screen.You will get a secret screen if you dont die on levels 30 and 40
also.

If you make it to level 50 on your first man you will be waiting for
another secret screen but you won't get one !! Why? Because you will get
an umbrella instead. This is the best bonus of the game, because you will
be transported to level 70!!

Level 100 : This is a bit of a cheat this bit. As soon as you appear jump
up and get the lightning bottle, then straight away fall to the bottom
left hand corner, face in to the corner and fire like hell. The big guy
at the end very rarely goes into the bottom corner, if he does don't worry
just repeat the above proccess. And after 25 hits with the lightning he
will be inside a big bubble, burst the bubble and then ...............

BOMBUZAL
An easy way to complete a level is to blow up all the bombs on the level
first, and see which squares remain undamaged. These are squares the
player should aim to finish on.

Study the map carefully before trying to complete each of the levels.

When attempting to detonate a pulsing bomb, pick it up, as it is easier
to the bombs size when it's picked up.

Remember that when you are tleporting a droid, you are impervious to the
effects of the monsters on the levels.

When teleporting from square to square you are invulnerable to the
explosions.

Switches have three phases: Phase 1 = Set
                            Phase 2 = On
                            Phase 3 = Off.
Phase 1 can never be reversed after a switch has been operated.

When teleporting, the explosions occour before you teleport, so if you are
teleporting onto a mine, it will be destroyed before you get there,
provided the square is in the blast radius and is riveted.

On the ST and Amiga versions of Bombuzal the mouse makes the game more
difficult and should only be used by experienced users.

When dealing with more than one nasty, try to kill them off as quickly as
possible: use the dissolving squares and switches to make the squares to
dissapear beneath them.

When using sighted droids you may activate switches, but when the bomb
blows up the droid will die. Also if you try to move the droid away from
the bomb you will move when the bomb and the droid have been destroyed.

A blind droid can not activate switches.

Remember the code! Better still write it down. You will need it when you
continue the game another day.

CARRIER COMMAND
Start the action game and set a course for Isolus (just east of
Thermopylae). Stay just out of range for approximately 10 minutes. As soon
as the message "Isolus is now an enemy island appears, launch a manta and
fly toward the north side of the island.The enemy carrier will be directly
ahead of you.

When arming a Walrus, try loading it up with both missiles and lasers
(plus any thing else you wish to carry in the rear compartment.

CHRONOSQUEST
The solution to the first level...

You need to pick up punch cards to get to further levels. Go upstairs and
examine the bottom of the statute - not the pillar. Examine the corner of
the carpet. Open the chest of drawers and get any items. Drop the key that
you used to do this. Go through the north east door. Examine the gap under
the bed. Examine the the small cabinet nearest to the control panel and
get the item in the drawer. Now go out and down the stairs. Go west and
get the round item on the bookshelf. Go east and put the object on the
left pillar. Go east and then north west into the kitchen. Find the safe
and use the piece of paper on it.

Get the lighter. Get the bottle and empty the wine from it. Go to the
start position of the game and go through the door. Stop! Ignite the
lighter and go up. turn the lighter off. Go west. Examine the Bible and
the top of the cupboard and light the candle with the lighter. Now go east
and down twice. Now go west.

Drop the first three cards that are nearest the control panel. Examine the
drawer above the chair. Examine the mirror on the top right until a switch
appears. Flick the switch. Stop! Go East and up. Now go south west and get
the ball from the pillar on the left of the stairs; drop it. Go through
the door , down and west. Go through the door ... ah ha. The time machine.

Flick the lever - that is on the wall next to the fuse box upwards. Put
the fuses in the fuse box. Now pull the switch. Now go up and your in the
machine. Put the card that you are holding into the card slot and flick
the switch...........

DUNGEONMASTER
These spells and their effect will prove useful.

POTION SPELLS:
VI into a flask for a healing potion
YA into a flask for a stamina potion
VI BRO into a flask for a curing potion
FUL BRO KU into a flask for an added strength potion
YA BRO DAIN into a flask for an added wisdom potion
YA BRO NETA into a flask for an added vitality potion
OH BRO ROS into a flask for an added dexterity potion
YA BRO into a flask for a magical shield potion
ZO VEN into a flask for a venom potion
ZO BRO RA into a flask for a pure manna potion

LIGHT/DARK SPELLS:
FUL for magical light
OH IR RA for longer lasting light
DES IR SAR for darkness

PROTECTION SPELLS:
FUL BRO NETA for a fire shield
YA IR for a group shield

FIREPOWER SPELLS:
DES EW to weaken non-material beings
OH VEN for a poison cloud
FUL IR for a fireball
OH KATH RA for a lightning bolt

MISCELLANEOUS:
ZO to open certain doors
YA BRO ROS for magical footprints
OH EW RA for magic vision

ELITE.

TRADING:
Trade in food and wines until you can afford to start trading in medical
supplies, computers and furs (medical supplies are a new feature, that
poor agricultural worlds will pay lots for). The quickest way to build up
some money is to shuttle between two safe planets that have opposite
economic structures (i.e. ferry medical supplies/computers from a rich
industrial high tech world to a poor agricultural world, and load up with
furs for the return trip).

EQUIPMENT:
All of it's useful but the first thing you'll want to buy is a large cargo
bay. With one installed your profits increase that much faster and it's
not long before you'll be able to buy a docking computer. Next most
essential item is the energy unit, followed by an ECM system. Fuel scoops
can be handy for picking up free space cargo, but remember - you run the
risk of picking up contraband. Retro rockets are an expensive luxury. If
you're in that much trouble during a fight resort to dropping an energy
bomb.

DOCKING:
By the time you've earnt enough to by a docking computer, you'll have
docked often enough to become proficient at it anyway. But it's still
worth buying one, as it takes all the worry out of docking. Note - if
you're flying towards a station with the docking computer on, and you've
got pirates or Thargoids on your tail, they can still destroy you before
you dock.

LASERS:
Obviosly the Military laser's the the thing to have mounted on the front
as soon as you can afford it. The mining lasers useful if you want to
spend you're time chasing bits of asteroid around the cosmos, but for
battle forget them.

ENEMIES:
Some are easier to kill than others, and it wont take long for you to
recognise the tough ones (always I.D. a target before attacking!). Once
you get a condition red on screen, stop and line up the target on the
screen. Keep firing until they're completely destroyed or start to fire
back, then apply some speed and start ducking and diving untill you get on
their tail (always remember to switch to 2X mode). Note - one of the
easiest ways to get into witchspace is to power up to max before entering
Hyperspace. This doesn't always work, but persevere and youll soon find
your self amongst a whole bunch of Thargoids.

GRAIL QUEST
The complete solution to Microdeals menu-based adventure:

On the first screen there is a bag of gold hidden in the bushes - don't
pick this up yet. Use magic on the dragon on the next screen, but spare
it's life. Go to the castle and kill the Goblin at the entrance. When
inside the castle, sleep on the street for three nights. When the man
crawls up to you, on the third night, give him some of the cure found in
found in the bottle in the window in the top left hand side of the screen.
Go back to the forest and give Billot the gold from the bush and return to
the castle. Leave Billot at the inn while you sleep on the street. Return
to the forest. When you meet a hooded man return to his house and cure his
mother. Return to the castle and go to the upper level. Use magic on the
bandit, but spare his life. You will be transported to the world of
essences where you must find the Grail. In the forest there is a man
crawling on the ground, cure him and then go west to the pit in the ground
Enter the pit and approach the light - you will complete the game.

OIDS
1: After refuelling at a fuel base, fire into the air before lifting off.
   if the refuelling pipe comes out again then the dump still has some
   fuel in it. If the pipe doesn't re-emerge the dump can be shot for an
   extra 100 points. ** or just  shoot it any way 'cos most of the levels
   can be completed without refuelling anyway.

2: When going through teleports, fly slowly and activate your shield just
   as you touch the teleporter - this reduces the risk of impacting your
   ship on the sides of a small cavern.

3: When creating new planetoids, if you require a more powerfull install-
   ation such as a stronger attracter or repulser or a rapid fire gun
   turrent then simply place two or more of the same object in the same
   position, each hit destroys one of them. **** This is a good one!! But
   try doing this put 1 of the buildings with oids in it on the level (so
   you can pay it! (did you know that if you don't put any oids on the
   planet you warp to it and complete it instantly!)) now get the big
   instillation and put as many as you can in the same place, you can now
   shoot them one by one (in which case you'll probably die), or fire a
   missile into them and watch your score jump to around 600,000. A nice
   way to make the high score table look impressive.

OVERLANDER:

LEVEL 1:
1. Select counterfeit money.
2. Fuel up to 14 notches on the fuel guage.
3. Get turbo, 4 battering rams and two flare bombs.
4. After the first bikes slow down or the gunners will kill you.
5. Destroy trucks from as far away as possible.
6. Slow to 100-150 mph to negotioate barriers.
7. If you stay in the middle lane when you come to the wrecks you wont die

LEVEL 2:
1. Select kidnapped official.
2. Fuel up to half full.
3. Buy leanburner, a few bullet proofs, rams, and flare bombs.
4. After first bikes there's a nasty surprise in the valley below.

LEVEL 3: DARKLANDS
1. Select plutonium.
2. Fuel up to half full (if you have leanburner - if you don't then fill
   up to the max.
3. Buy rams, bullet proofing, flare bombs and lives if you need them.
4. The toughest part of the course is early on, so don't be afraid to let
   loose with the flare bombs.

LEVEL 4: THE GUTTER RUN
1. Select illegal chemicals. Fill up to max level.
2. Buy maximum rams, bullet proofs and as many lives as you can afford
   and flare and smart bomb depending on your bank balance.
3. The barriers are every where onthis level and you will need to be at
   90 - 100 mph to avoid them all. Try to save your rams for later in the
   level.
4. So you didn't like the "gunshot alleys" in 1,2 and 3? The alleys in 4
   are real mean. Smartbombs and bullet proofing are your best chances of
   survival.

LEVEL 5: GRAVEYARD
1. Choose the President. Fill up to maximum fuel.
2. Buy everything $40,000 up front plus whatever you had from the last
   level should be enough, lives should be on the top of your shopping
   list followed by rams, proofing, brakes, armour and weapons - don't
   bother with the wheelblades!
3. Do the same as for the last level. Because your car's at maximum
   everything, this level shouldn't proove too difficult.
