                                SCRUPLES

Typed in by CHUCKLES. Edited by PARASITE.


NUMBER OF DILEMMA QUESTIONS
The computer edition of SCRUPLES comes equiped with over 230
dilemma questions and over 2750 answers, some witty, some serious
and many thought provoking.

NUMBER OF COMPUTER PLAYERS
There are 50 computer characters to choose from, each with their
own personality. These characters are randomly put together from
hundreds of possible faces each time you load this part of the
game, so you may never play with the same charactwer twice. Tghey
come from all walks of life, they range from punks to O.A.P's,
Vicars to Gangsters! Each computer player's personality will vary
slightly each time you play. This is to reflect mood changes,
which is a feature well recognized in humans. You just never know
what mood your computer pals are going to be in!

We have tried to make the personalities of the computer players
as varied as possible, and so make their personality suit their
visual. The characters wearing the sunglasses are generally very
dodgey dealers, and the honest looking players should play an
honest game. You will have to try and learn which computer
players suit your style of play.

The computer players have a competitive level built in. They will
play according to their personality near the start of the game,
but if they start to lose they will start to play untrue to their
personality. The more cards they gain, the more they will give
uncharacteristic answers. Their competitiveness will go down
again if they start to get rid of cards, and they will start to
play true to their personality again.

INTELLIGENCE
Each of the computer players are intelligent, and have the
ability to analyse the opposition and ask the right questions, in
order to gain the right answers. You enter your personality
traits into the computer to give it an insight into your
character. The computer will process your traits throughout the
game and will try to predict your every answer. At the end of the
game the computer will show you how your character performed. If
you have not been answering questions truthfully then the
computer will adjust your personality traits accordingly and give
you a graphic readout of your performance (superimposed on the
original) at the end of the game.

NUMBER OF PLAYERS
Between 3-10 players can participate, made up of either all human
players, or a mixture of human and computer players. If you wish
you may enter all computer players and just watch them play.

OBJECTIVE OF THE GAME
To be the first player to get rid of all the dilemma cards in
your hand by anticipating how your opponents will react to the
dilemmas you present them with.

MOUSE
All control is through the Mouse, apart from the name entry. This
can be mouse or keyboard. The messages, received in the message
window, will tell you where to place the mouse (HAND). When
inputting your personality traits the left hand mouse button
gives you control of the bar, the right hand mouse button sets
that bar at the level chosen. Throughout the game, pressing
either the right or left button selects the option.

SHALL THE COMPUTER CONTROL THIS PLAYER?
If you wish the computer to control all the actions of this
player, point to COMPUTER and click on mouse button. If you wish
a Human to control this player point to "HUMAN" and click on the
mouse button.

HUMAN PLAYER
You will be asked to build a UNIQUE personality for your
character, then choose a face. You will now be prompted to enter
a name for your human player. This is done via the keyboard, and
your name cannot have more than twelve letters.

ENTERING YOUR PERSONALITY
All personalities are stored in the form of a Bar Chart. You will
now need to setup your personality. Each of the twelve traits are
set individually. Control of the BAR is gained by moving up and
down. When you are satisfied with the level, clicking the right
hand button will set it and move you onto the next of the twelve
traits.

The first character trait you will be asked for is PRINCIPLES.
Move the principle bar up and down by clicking the left hand
button, between the points of minus 5 and plus 5.
If you feel that you are a person with strong principles then you
will pull the bar up into the plus area. If you have low
principles then you should move the bar into the minus area.
Average is the area around zero.
Once you are happy with your entry then click the right hand
button, this will set the attribute and move you onto the next.
Continue to do this until you have entered all twelve traits. The
computer will then "ADJUST" your personality by comparing the
relevant traits to a realistic level.

The reason for this Adjustment is that some traits are inter-
related, for example, Personal integrity is related to Honesty,
which is related to Trust etc.
The computer players will use this adjusted Bar Chart of your
personality traits as an insight to what sort of character you
are. Each one of the computer players has such a personality
chart, and computer players are able to pick the right question
to ask the right player from analysing this chart.
During the course of the game the computer will keep a check on
whether you are playing according to your personality traits and
update them if you are not.

PERSONALITY TRAITS
Here is a brief description of the twelve personality traits you
will need to enter.

Principles: Whether the character has a strong feeling about
something.

Personal integrity: The liklihood that the character will stick
to their principles.

Professional Integrity: Whether doing the player's job well takes
precedence over convenience.

Trust: Whether the player can be trusted.

Family Relationship: How important family relationships are to
the player.

Partner Relations: How important the relationship is with the
player's partner (loved one).

Friendships: How important friendships are to the character.

Busy-body Factor: How likely the player is to get involved in a
situation.

Humanity: How caring the character is.

Greed: How greedy the character is.

Shyness: How shy the character is.

Honesty: How honest the character is.

CHOOSING A FACE
You will now be given a choice of five faces, which the computer
has selected as being the nearest to your character's
personality.Selection of the face is made by moving the hand up
and down to select a face. Moving the hand to the top or bottom
of the window will scroll the faces. When satisfied with the
face, point with the hand, click either button and that face will
take on your chosen personality and be displayed on the right
hand side of the screen.

ENTERING A COMPUTER PLAYER
After selecting "COMPUTER" to the prompt "HUMAN OR COMPUTER
PLAYER?" You will be given a gallery of fifty different
characters, each with its own UNIQUE personality. Selection of
the character is made by moving the hand up and down. When
satisfied with the character press either button. This character
will then be displayed on the right hand side of the screen.

Once you have done this, the character's personality will be
displayed for three seconds - this is to allow Human players an
insight into the computer player's personality. This will be
necessary during the game, to allow the Human players to
correctly anticipate the computer's reply.

You will now be asked to name this Computer Character, you do
this via the keyboard and finish by pressing RETURN or ENTER, or
using the mouse, select the letters required and click either
button. When you have typed in the name you require select the
"ENTER" box and click a button.

After three players have been chosen you will be asked in the
message window if you have finished. The minimum players required
to play the game is three, the maximum is ten. After you have
input three or more you will be able to leave this area of the
game by moving the mouse into the message box and clicking either
button. The process of entering characters is repeated until all
participants have been entered.

PLAYING THE GAME
The Dilemma cards are shuffled and dealt to each of the players.
The computer deals:
5 Dilemma cards to each player if there are 3 - 5 players
4 Dilemma cards to each player if there are 6 - 7 players
3 Dilemma cards to each player if there are 8 - 10 players

One answer card is also dealt to each player, this will have
either a "YES", "NO", or "DEPENDS" answer.

YOUR TURN (selecting a dilemma)
On your turn as the ASKING player your face will be highlighted
with a small "?" and the following instructions should be
followed.

CHECK YOUR ANSWER CARD
Move the "HAND" over to the "A" card, which you will find towards
the bottom right of the question window, and press either button.
The answer will be revealed for as long as you hold the mouse
button down. The answer will have either "YES", "NO", or
"DEPENDS" written on it. (If there is more than one human player
then care should be taken not to reveal the card openly.)

SELECT YOUR DILEMMA CARD
This is done by moving the hand over the FAN of "Q" cards. The
question card currently under the hand is the one displayed in
the main window. When the question you wish to ask is displayed,
pressing either button will pose that dilemma.

SELECT PERSON TO ANSWER
You will now be asked "WHO DO YOU WANT TO ASK?". The "HAND" will
be placed on top of the first available face and by moving left,
right, up, down you can select who you wish to ask. When moving
over the faces the name of the current player under the hand is
displayed in the message window.

You must weigh up all the players and try to work out the one
which will give the same answer as the one writter on your answer
card. Once you have selected a player to answer your question
press fire and their face will be highlighted with a small "!".

ANSWERING A DILEMMA QUESTION
On your turn as the ANSWERING player your face will be
highlighted with a small "!" and the following instructions
should be followed.

SELECT AN ANSWER (Yes, No, or Depends)
Read the question carefully and choose an answer of YES, NO or
DEPENDS. This is done by moving the HAND up and down to the
desired answer and pressing fire.

SELECT REASON
You will now be presented with four possible reasons for why you
chose YES, NO or DEPENDS. Selection is made by moving up and down
to the desired reason and pressing fire.

DO THE ANSWERS MATCH?
The answer card of the ASKING player is compared with the reply
from the ANSWERING player.

ANSWERS DO MATCH
If they match, the ASKING player discards his/her DILEMMA and
ANSWER cards and is delt a new ANSWER card only. Then the ASKING
player is asked "DO YOU WANT TO CHALLENGE?"

ANSWERS DON'T MATCH
If they don't match the ASKING player discards his/her dilemma
cards and is dealt a new one of each. Then the ASKING player is
asked "DO YOU WANT TO CHALLENGE?".

CHALLENGING
The ASKING player may challenge the answer regardless of whether
answers match or not. If the ASKING player responds "YES" to the
challenge, he is offered the choice of answer from the remaining
answers that he/she regards should have been the correct answer.
I.E. If the challenger is challenging a "YES" answer then he/she
will be offered either, "DEPENDS", or "NO" options to base their
challenge on. Once the challenger has chosen the answer which
they feel would have been a better answer than the one given,
they must then select from four reasons connected with that
answer. The challenging players face will be highlighted with a
"?".

Selection of the answer is by the same method as before. Clicking
the right hand mouse button allows you to review the two answers,
a second click will redisplay the question. Once selection has
been made, all the players vote. If the ASKING player does not
wish to challenge then the option will be offered to the rest of
the players (with exception to the player being challenged).

THE VOTE
Each player in turn is asked which player they believe. Selection
is made by moving up, down and fire. After each player has cast
their vote the result is depicted over the faces by:

A HALO indicating belief of the ANSWERING player

A PITCH FORK indicating belief of the CHALLENGING player

WINNING THE CHALLENGE
The winner of the challenge is displayed and is asked to choose
the dilemma card they wish to give to the LOSING player.
Selection is by the same method as "Selecting your Dilemma".

(Please note that a Dilemma card can not be lost in a challenge
if it is the only card held by the player.)

The main game cycle is repeated until one player loses all his/
her Dilemma cards. When this happens the player's face will FLASH
and he/she will be declared the WINNER.

The winner will be presented with his/her original histogram and
this will be adjusted depending on how the answers matched his/
her original personality and his/her TRUE personality will be
revealed by overlaying graphs of both. Click on mouse button to
repeat in order for each of the HUMAN players.

You will now be asked "DO YOU WANT TO PLAY WITH THE SAME
PLAYERS?" Select YES or NO. If you select YES you will be
returned to "PLAYING THE GAME" stage 1. If you select NO you will
be returned to "SETTING UP THE PLAYERS" stage 1.
