                                Paccer V1.0
                                -----------
                       written 1989 by Dirk Hoffmann
                                       Moerscherstr. 128
                                       6710 Frankenthal
                                       D - W.Germany

               This program is Shareware. Please copy it...

    If you find it useful, please send DM15 or $10 to the upper adress.
Then you will become a registered user of this product. If you add a blank
         disc, I will send it back to you with Version 1.0 of the 
  Paccer Level - Editor, including a 100% Save option for your self made
   levels. Besides, I will send you a Trainer Version of Paccer and the
    source codes of the game. If there will be a new version of Paccer,
               every registered user can use an update service.

First of all, if you think Paccer is a cruncher, another Command Line Tool
or a Dia Show you are badly informed. But if you think Paccer is only a
little nice PacMan game, you're right. You can run Paccer from Workbench or
from CLI. I have not noticed any problems with fast ram or external Disc
drives. Please remember that all files that belong to Paccer must be in the
current directory. If there are any problem because of File not found
errors, Paccer sometimes quits automatically or it calls the Guru to help!
If Paccer has loaded successfully, the Playscreen appears and a Text is
shown in the first line. Whenever a Text is shown, you can quit the game by
pressing the left MOUSE button. To continue press the firebutton on your
Joystick.
I think everybody knows the original PacMan, so I need not explain how
to play Paccer. It is just like the original Game. There are only a few
things that differ from the original.
If you collect a Mystery, one of four(!) different extras will be activated.
You can identify them by watching the color changes of the ghosts.

- If colors do not change means that you stop collecting points, but if
  you pass an empty field, you will set a point. (Please forgive me...)
- If colors become yellow the four ghosts clear all points on their way, so
  they help you clear a level.
- If colors become black you can pass through a ghost without getting
  killed. But remember that you can't eat any ghost.
- If colors become grey and the ghosts stop, you can eat without being
  disturbed by any ghost. But do not cross their ways...

From level to level the ghosts increase their speed. It will get rather
impossible to clear a level if the ghosts are faster than your paccer,but 
a good player will manage such levels, too (I hope...). After five levels 
you get an extra live to survive.
If you have found any bugs or if you only want to get in contact with me,
please write to me. Please tell me how you like this game or how I can 
improve it. If there will be a great resonance, I will write a new Version
with new features like big playfields, two player option ...



                             Enjoy this game and not your pirate copies...


                                                    D. Hoffmann
