This material was downloaded from People Link (plink).  Below is a copy
of the info from the plink file area.

-Fred ><>
 3-Aug-91

-----
AMIGA ZONE                 Sec:  10
Name : OMEGA150.LZH          Num: 27,776
By:   SKEEVE     Date:  4/26/91 22:40
Bytes:    381,696    Downloads:   35
Binary!
Title:    OMEGA DUNGEON GAME V.1.50
Keywords: AMIGA ROGUE HACK LARN MORIA NETHACK ULTIMA DUNGEON GAME COLOR
-----

                        Introduction.
   So what is Omega? Is it a greek opera quiz, the final frontier or a
frogtoaster? No! It's life...Hmmm...life?
   Omega is a dungeon/adventure simulation game, that sets you in the
role as the hero. It is very similar to the former games Moria, Nethack,
Rogue, Larn etc, just a tad more complicated...The gamesystem creates a
whole world around the player. There are several cities and dungeons, a
parthenon representing the two alignment sides Law and Chaos with The Druids
in between, lot's of guilds that all can be joined (though some exclude others)
plus different shops and service-centres in the cities.
   The graphics is Ultima-like, but in HIRES...! If you are confused
about the designation of one of the images, use the 'x' command. Besides
the 'W' command brings up an additional output window, which gives a tandem
perspective.

                        Object of the game.
   The main goal is to get on the hi-score list. There is several entrances
on it. One for each guilds, one for each religion, one for each end of the
alignment scala, and finally the hiscorer.
   You can also choose just to play for completing all the quests, that
either your guild leader(s) sets for you, and/or follow what the oracle
advises you to do. But remember it's not a need to be a member of any guild,
it's just very very convenient!

                What is needed to run the game.
   The first thing you must do is to check the uncompressed files you get
when using 'lharc -x -r e <filename>' to see if they all are complete. The
list in 'This_Directory' should help you with that task.
   Second Before running the game the first time, you must copy the
library-fileiff.library to your libs: directory, otherwise you won't see the pictures.
Next make sure, that the configuration file is set up to fit your system.
   Each time you run Omega you should set the stack to at least 15000 in the
shell environment from where you wish to run Omega, i.e. if you intend to
start it from the workbench, it must also have a stack-size of 15000...
   The game is very large...so you must be in possession of a 1meg Amiga or
larger, plus a mouse plugged in. I'm not sure of whether the program runs
in a 2.0 environment or not, some rumours says no, others yes, so use 1.3
if possible.
   If you only got 1M, your life will be tough...First you won't be able to
load the pictures, second the load of special sites will be VERY slow, since
it is not possible to use the ramdisk :( Especially the Rampart city will
take ages to fetch and what noise it makes! You should also switch off your
second drive to save any memory, plus use fastmemfirst. Omega is a large
and greedy program, so remember to check the memory amount often.
                                                - Yours sincerely
                                                Klavs Torben Pedersen
                                                Grxnjordskollegiet v.3404
                                                DK-2300 Copenhagen S
                                                Denmark
                                                tlf 31- 58 34 69
