
			Distribuation.

   You can spread this game as much as you wish, as long as this file,
together with 'versions', is to be found near the executable program
omega in a readable form. this is only a must since these files contains 
information needed to run Omega.
   The game is not ShareWare but ordinary Public Domain, i.e. I'm not 
charging anything for anyone using it. But if you care to support a poor
student (that's me), you are welcome to send a small donation, but only if
you think the game is worth it :) This will go to support my wonderful
Amiga, so I can continue making even better programs.


			Introduction.

   So what is Omega? Is it a greek opera quiz, the final frontier or a 
frogtoaster? No! It's life...Hmmm...life?
   Omega is a dungeon/adventure simulation game, that sets you in the 
role as the hero. It is very similar to the former games Moria, Nethack, 
Rogue, Larn etc, just a tad more complicated...The gamesystem creates a 
whole world around the player. There are several cities and dungeons, a 
parthenon representing the two alignment sides Law and Chaos with The Druids 
in between, lot's of guilds that all can be joined (though some exclude others)
plus different shops and service-centres in the cities.
   The graphics is Ultima-like, but in HIRES...! If you are confused
about the designation of one of the images, use the 'x' command. Besides
the 'W' command brings up an additional output window, which gives a tandem
perspective.


			Object of the game.

   The main goal is to get on the hi-score list. There is several entrances 
on it. One for each guilds, one for each religion, one for each end of the 
alignment scala, and finally the hiscorer.
   You can also choose just to play for completing all the quests, that 
either your guild leader(s) sets for you, and/or follow what the oracle 
advises you to do. But remember it's not a need to be a member of any guild, 
it's just very very convenient!


			Changes from the original Omega.

   This game is originally written by Laurance R. Brothers, and ran under the 
UNIX system V. He remain all copyrights and is in fact the owner.

    I've taken the liberty to rewrite most of the source-code to port it to 
the Amiga. I have also made 'severe' changes to clear it from bugs and to 
reduce both size and speed. Nothing (except one function that showed 3*17*64 
chars forming a shifting omega sign) in the original game system have been 
removed, only rewritten. I have not implemented the curse.h system, though,
I found that to be quite slow and inadequate, when we got the console.device
on the Amiga, so I used that instead, making the output faster, but a bit 
shaky at times due to the cursor actions (I have shut it down some times, but
not everywhere (When I find the time for it I'll kill all the sloppy spots).

   Apart from the debugging I have added some extra stuff:

 o Three new types of items.
 o More special effects on handling objects.
 o Some new monsters.
 o Nastier dragons.
 o A configuration file-reader.
 o An easy to use file-selection.
 o A manual memory-check function.
 o All levels are saved to disk, not in memory.
 o Menus.
 o No automatic quit after a save.
 o No deletion of savefile at gamestart.
 o Higher prizes (due to inflation).
 o Higher required exp values to raise in guilds.
 o You can drink, eat and read things from the ground.
 o 'Stethoscope' plus 'Creation' option for wizards.
 o Possibility for showing pictures.
 o Some monster's immunity to spells now works. (He He)
 o Neat graphics.
 o More userfriendly display.
 o Closure of some popular loop-holes. (Need to close more in the future)
 o A small overview board which echo all actions as small pixels. ('W'-key)
 o More that I've forgotten...Or won't reveal.

		Using The configuration file.

   Omega uses three paths to access files. In the configuration file they
are called

  #SAVEPATH
  #LEVELPATH, and
  #LIBPATH

   #OMEGALIB is the only directory private for the game, it would spoil your
fun to look in the files...Btw the file should always be named omega.cnf and
be present in the directory from where you start the game.
Besides from setting the paths, you can also set a default name, and enable
cheatmode by entering the same string.

i.e.

  #NAME = Mjoelner
  #WIZARD = Mjoelner

   Furthermore it is possible to set two options controling pictures and
ramsaves. If you negate the picture option (which is neccessary if you only
own 1meg) no pictures will be shown. The ramdisk option simply disables the
"left on disk" check before each levelchange, letting you use ram: as medium.

f.ex.

   #OPTIONS = !ramdisk, !pictures (very small system)

or
   #OPTIONS = ramdisk, pictures (larger system)

A semicolon placed on the first position on a line yields a comment.


		What is needed to run the game.

   The first thing you must do is to check the uncompressed files you get
when using 'lharc -x -r e <filename>' to see if they all are complete. The
list in 'This_Directory' should help you with that task.
   Second Before running the game the first time, you must copy the library-file
iff.library to your libs: directory, otherwise you won't see the pictures.
Next make sure, that the configuration file is set up to fit your system.
   Each time you run Omega you should set the stack to at least 15000 in the
shell environment from where you wish to run Omega, i.e. if you intend to
start it from the workbench, it must also have a stack-size of 15000...
   The game is very large...so you must be in possession of a 1meg Amiga or
larger, plus a mouse plugged in. I'm not sure of whether the program runs
in a 2.0 environment or not, some rumours says no, others yes, so use 1.3
if possible.
   If you are worried about the seemingly memoryleak, try applying the
'flushlibs' menu from the workbench, using 'LoadWB -debug' before and after
without moving any windows around. See?... I'm not filling your machine with
homeless pointers :)
   There should not be any problems using the program in a multitasking
environment. I myself normally have 'bout 5 background tasks running, and
I've not had any trouble. Though you obviously cannot make use of any
quick-typer tools, since I check the VANILLAKEY's from the IDCMP...
   If you only got 1M, your life will be tough...First you won't be able to
load the pictures, second the load of special sites will be VERY slow, since
it is not possible to use the ramdisk :( Especially the Rampart city will
take ages to fetch and what noise it makes! You should also switch off your
second drive to save any memory, plus use fastmemfirst. Omega is a large
and greedy program, so remember to check the memory amount often.


		More to come.

   I'm willing to distribuate the source code on two disks for a small
fee of 60.00 Dkr. in Europe (10$, disks and mailing them are expensive in
Denmark) or 15$ if you live abroad somewhere. You can also contact me via
E-mail to aggaton@freja.diku.dk, if that is possible.

   The file 'itest' included, is a small testprogram, to show some of the
pictures I wish to include in the game, I am planing to make the movement a
bit like Ultima, keeping the player in the middle, if the scroll doesn't
turn out to be too difficult to make graceful.

   Besides, I'm open to any suggestions, idea's and possible bug fixes. I've
already received a lot, both criticism and roses, and am very happy for every
response I got so far :) It is always good to know, that somebody, somewhere
out there is using the programs you write.



		Hints.

 - First seek out all the special sites in Rampart the City, by walking
   inside every door. Open it if it's closed, don't try to open locked doors
   yet.
 - Next join one or several guilds of your like, be careful to choose
   something that fits the alignment you heed for...
 - Now you should equip yourself in the shops. Don't buy too expensive things
   yet.
 - You probably wondered why there is a large empty area in the lower left
   side of the city...Thats the botanial gardens, it's perhaps time to take
   a closer look at it...Don't walk into the hedges yet...
 - Did you find the oracle? She can tell you what should be your next move...


 - Travel along the north going highway to the nearest village perhaps there
   is something you could use...
 - The Arch Druid resides in a temple far to the north.

 - In case of doubt press the '?' key for online help.

That should be enough to get you started. Remember to save often, and good
hunt. 

						- Yours sincerely

						Klavs Torben Pedersen
						Grønjordskollegiet v.3404
						DK-2300 Copenhagen S
						Denmark
						tlf 31- 58 34 69

						aggaton@freja.diku.dk


P.S. If you are in the lucky situation that you are able to draw pictures
     or compose music/make sounds (which I must admit I'm out off),
     and you wish to donate them for the benefit of the game, they are VERY
     welcome (IFF-format)!!! Nice 32x16 color images, for displaying characters
     are likewise adopted immediately.
     (I slap myself for never learning to paint or compose.)

