                -----HYPERACE-----

-----Copyright © 1994 IMPACT PRODUCTIONS (Michael Hay)

-About HypeRace
       HypeRace is an overhead racing game.  It features 32 color graphics.
    Each of the cars feature about 160 frames of animation.  If you are
    running the game on a machine with one megabyte of memory then Hyperace
    allows three cars on screen.  If it is running on machines with two
    megabytes of memory or more, Hyperace allows four cars on screen at once.
    Any of the cars can be human controlled. It was written using AMOS.

-Floppy Disk Users
   The disk "HR1:" is self booting so simply insert it into "DF0:" and
   reboot the system.  If you have a second drive insert "HR2:" into it.
   Otherwise disks will be requested by the game when needed.

-Hard Disk Installation
      Step1) Copy the HypeRace files to the a drawer of your choice.
      Step2) Open a shell window
      Step3) Type the following:
               cd s:
               ed startup-sequence
      Step4) Anywhere in the startup sequence type:
               assign hr1: <type the location of the game ie
                            HD0:games/hyperace/>
               assign hr2: <the same location as above>
      Step5) save the changes and exit ed.

      **** Important Note!! ****
         HypeRace requires a lot of memory to run.  If you only have one
      megabyte then you probably will not have enough memory to run HypeRace
      while workbench is running. Even if you have two megabytes you still
      might only have enough memory free to run the three car version.  It
      would be advised to use the disk based version.  This version does not
      open a workbench so all of your computer's memory can be used.

-Playing the Game
      Main Menu
         Simply use the "F1" - "F4" keys to select the various options.
         F1) Cycles through the number of players
         F2) Cycles Between the various game types
            Single Race: Will bring up a menu allowing you to race one of
                         the tracks.  When this menu comes up keep in mind
                         that only the first six tracks are supplied with
                         this version.  The other six are available on a
                         data disk. (More on that later)

            Championship Original Tracks: If you do not have the data disk
                         then this is the only Championship that you should
                         choose.  This will cylcle through the six available
                         tracks and keep track of scores, wins, etc.

            Championship Data Disk Tracks: Requires data disk

            Championship All 12 Tracks: Requires data disk.
         F3) Cycles between 1 and 10 laps per race
         F4) When you are happy with your selections this will begin the
             game (Shows track select screen for single race)

      Controlling Your Spanking New Sports Car
         Joystick Controls:
            Fire = Accelerate
            Left = Steer Left
            Right = Steer Right
         Keyboard controls:
           Blue Car:
            Left Shift = Accelerate
            Left alt = Steer left
            Left Amiga = Steer right
           Green Car (Two Megs Only):
            Right Shift = Acclerate
            Right Amiga = Steer Left
            Right Alt = Steer Right
         In game key controls:
            P = Pauses the game
            Q = Quits current race and if all human players have finished,
                it finishes the computer cars automatically.
-Gee, six more tracks would be cool, how do I get them?
   Simply send $10.00 to the following address

      Michael Hay
      117 Piedra Loop
      Los Alamos, NM   87544
      U.S.A

   Please note that although I will accept other currencies, U.S funds are
   preferred. (U.S. money orders work nicely.)

   Questions? Comments? Death Threats?
      My email address is:

      haym@lahs.losalamos.k12.nm.us

-Copyright notice
   HypeRace is provided "as is" and has absolutely no warranty, expressed,
   or implied.  HypeRace is NOT public domain.  It is copyright ©1994 by
   IMPACT PRODUCTIONS.  This readme,game, and its contained files can be
   distributed freely as long as the files remain intact and unmodified. Any
   distribution for profit is strictly prohibited.
   IMPACT PRODUCTIONS will not be held responsible for any damage to the
   users system or computer.  

-About IMPACT PRODUCTIONS
   IMPACT PRODUCTIONS consists of me, Michael Hay.  (With some occasional
   outside help) My purpose for setting up the company is to produce
   commercial quality software for a low price.($10.00)(See above) My next
   game is going to be called SpeedWay.  I assure you that it is ten times
   better then Hyperace and will be comming out in the future.











