UTG: Copyright 1993 Chris Hurley, All Rights Reserved

--->This is the last trial-run release before the game is completed.



UTG Installation Instructions and Version Notes

UTG Is installed via the Commodore Installer Program.  Simply start the
UTGInstall icon, and away it goes.  The Installer is available on the Workbench
2.1 install disk, and from better electronic distribution sites (i.e. FTP)

While the documentation is in AmigaGuide format, it is a plain text file, so
it can easily be read without AmigaGuide.

UTG Uses Tooltypes to control various aspects of it's startup-behavior.  If
can't use NTSC Low-Res, You may want to get Information (from Workbench) on
the UTG Icon, and make sure there is no "DISPLAYID=" tooltype.  If none are
present, UTG will offer a ScreenMode Requester for you to choose a mode your
system supports.  UTG would really like something as close to 320x200 in a
mode capable of 32 or more colors, so the closer to this you can give it,
the happier it(and you) will be.  I have tried this on 640x400x256 on an A4000,
and while the window was a bit dinky, it certainly worked.  For More into on
UTG Tooltypes, see the literature file.  

Pressing HELP while playing the game will show you a command summary.


Note:
	If you find yourself unable to move, click in the UTG Screen.  If this 
doesn't help, switch the screens with Amiga N and M 
(or whatever your screen-switch preferences are set at) and find the UTG screen,
then click in it.  Sometimes, UTG may send something to the console which will
cause that window to be active.  I have tried to remove most of these, but there
may be others.  If you find some, let me know where they are.

KNOWN BUGS:
	For some reason, UTG did not like to run across PARNET when I tried
it.  There is no good explanation for this, since it works fine on floppy
and harddrives.  
	If you find more, send me mail.  I need to know what you did
to generate an error, where you were and what type of output UTG gave.

	Please send me your findings, problems, and ideas.

	Thanks,  Chris
	mr_scary@embassy.lakes.trenton.sc.us
		or
	mr_scary@lakes.trenton.sc.us
		or
	mrscary@netcom.com

9/17/92
	New to this version:
	Pull-Down Menus
	(L)ook feature now works with the mouse too.
	Mouse can be used to move player (up,down,left right of player)
	Merchants are now regular characters.
	The world map has been developed slightly more.
	Improved double-buffering:  Clicking on back screen now switches to the 
		front screen(which is normally in front, unless the user switches
		screens around.
	Major Bug stomped in the routine which checks for walls and bricks before
		moving characters.  I have no idea why it worked as well as it did.
	The first monster is now in, although you can't fight it yet.
10/?/92
	Monsters appear out of nowhere and fight you.  This doesn't seem too bad
		and they don't attack too much.
	Some monsters now carry food, or may themselves become food. (Thanks Pete!)
	Some of the Mouse routines have been scaled back to prevent wild misconduct.
		(like being able to talk through walls and such siliness)

11/15/92 (v.0.7)
	Amiga 3000 kicking development time in the pants a bit (yeah!)
	Monsters now appear and move around in the maps.  They have become
		a bit more intelligent (than rocks) in that they will try to get
		at you, even with something in the way.  Be careful about running
		with one monster chasing you as they seem to come out of the
		woodwork to form some sort of "monster party posse," spelling
		the untimely expiration of lower level characters (although
		offering much food and great riches to the wordly adventurer.)
	The map is still developing.
	I have the images for some of the monsters, although they are not in
		place yet.  The surrogate 'X' has a bit of an appeal to it, I
		think.
11/25/92 (v.0.701)
	Double Buffering Removed at this time.  (compiler #define controls)
12/25/92 (v.082)
	Christmas deadline missed.  Monsters (except lions) have graphics
	instead of 'X''s now.  Boats work again.  Save game works again.
	The World is Done.  Magic View is in place. (easy,easy,easy)
	File Version is up to 7 now.
1/9/93 (v.0.90)
	Horses work now.  Double Buffering is in the house! (correctly, with two
	bitmaps attached to one screen.  Thank God (and C=) for the RKRM's!
	Some Minor Plot Activity.  The Older Digitized music is gone, since it
	was too repititious and boring.  There are now 3 mods: fighting, towns,
	and outdoors.
2/1/93 (v.092.1)
	Double buffering radically faster due to optimizing (LPROF and LSTAT!!).
	File version corresponds to game version now to ease/harden testing 
	(depending on your perspective.)  Saved game enhacements for testing:
	if it notices a character in the saved game is invalid (i.e. it was just
	a blank) it used the defaults, Allowing older saved games to be used
	without some of the bizarre results.  Mainly to help me test it.
2/4/93 (v.092.2)
	ScreenModes Requester Added.  Hopefully this will improve the game on
	on non-ECS machines, and make it compatible with any sort of RTG that
	come around.  The game icon now supports tooltypes, which are described
	in the UTGLiterature.txt file.  It also makes icons for saved games which
	can be used to start the game.  Rettilb, Agima_Centre and South_Central
	are done.  You can now board a boat while on horseback (Thanks, Eric).
	Fixed monster graphic errors (Blue Dragon was actually red.  Pteradactyl
	was shown as a hawk, etc...)
2/14/93 (v.0.93)
	Inventory Option Exists.  Characters can't move as close to the edges as 
	they used to(thus making it so you should always be able to talk to them.)
	Another prototype clean-up version.  When fighting monsters, if you flee,
	and are successful, UTG will ask which direction you want to run, rather
	than simply picking the first available direction from NSEW.
4/3/93 (v.0.95)
	Double buffering is nearly unneeded now due to the new method 
	I'm using to draw all the graphics.  Non-Double buffered scrolling
	is slower than before,  but is infinitely nicer to look at.
	MASSIVE improvements to load/save game functions.  Theses should be
	as fast on floppy as they were on harddrive before, with harddrive
	saves now almost instantaneous.	
4/4/93
	Standard Commodore Installation Routine now set up.  AmigaGuide hyper-text
	docs now created.

