Short:    crash indicator for Apollo 2030 (v1.0)
Uploader: agi@sbox.tu-graz.ac.at (Thomas Aglassinger)
Author:   agi@sbox.tu-graz.ac.at (Thomas Aglassinger)
Type:     game/gag

styx (v1.0)


DESCRIPTION:

  This tool is dedicated to all users of an Apollo 2030 accellerator.

  As you might have noticed, with an Apollo 2030 in your A2000, your
  computer crahes all the time.

  This is very annoing, especially during compiling or rendering: you
  never know if your computer crashed, until you look at the power led
  or try to move the mouse pointer.

  With styx, here's a solution to this problem: styx opens a window on
  the workbench, and immediatly some sticks start moving around in
  this window.

  If you now start a compiler and your computer crashes (like it's
  quite probably with an Apollo 2030), the sticks stop to move (of
  course).

  So if the sticks stop to move, you know that your computer crashed
  and can reset it immediatly without wasting time looking at the
  power led or trying to move the mouse pointer.

  C-source included (Maxon C).


REQUIREMENTS:

  AmigaOS 2.x or 3.x,
  Apollo 2030 accelerator card


NOTES:

  If you got an A1200 with an Apollo accelerator, please mail me if
  styx works with it too.

  styx should work with any CPU and accelerator card, but without an
  Apollo it's half the fun: Why should you watch moving sticks when
  you know that they won't stop anyway?

  Apollo-A2000s also often crash without a blinking power led. This
  makes styx even more useful!

  If you got a Picasso-II graphics board too, you will see another
  funny thing with Apollo 2030: Click the styx-window to front/
  background several times, and lots of pixel-trash appears in the
  window. This is not a bug within styx and only occures on
  Picasso-II-screens.

  The last paragraph of course beside from the fact that Picasso-II
  *always* produces pixel-trash in chunky modes, if an Apollo is in
  town..


INSTALLATION:

  copy "styx" somewhere into your search-path (e.g. "sys:utilities")


USAGE:

  Put the line

    run >nil: <nil: styx

  into your User-Startup.


AUTHOR:

  Thomas Aglassinger <agi@sbox.tu-graz.ac.at> (Tommy-Saftwörx)
  Lissagasse 12/9
  A-8020 Graz
  AUSTRIA


COPYRIGHT:

  styx is styx-ware: if you like styx, create another copy of "styx"
  and name it "styx.1". Then create "styx.2". Go on with this until
  your harddrive is full.

