
           Recent Changes in 'Almagica - Scions of a Forgotten World'

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0.18 Second official demo release - Early February 1997

o Removed the internal resourcetracking routines and made them a runtime library
  (tracker.library). There are two versions of this library. One is able to dump
  info to the serial port, while the other (tracker.library.nodebug) is silent.

o Rewrote the routines that handles the drawing of the units.  Previously  there
  was  two different routines, one for small and one for big troops. These could
  only handle gfx that was 16xh and 32xh pixles big. These two has been replaced
  by  one single routine that can handle up to 32x32 pixels for small units, and
  up to 48x48 pixels for big units. This allows us to have unit gfx that extends
  into  the  next square, so it's possible to draw gfx that REALLY looks like it
  is attacking somebody, and not just dancing with him... NOTE!! Watch  out  for
  gfx-trashing.  Try to find situations where trash appears. There situation are
  most likley to occur when two or more units gfx exists on the same place. This
  routine  does  not  clip  units against the shadows and it is about 30% faster
  then the old routines when the blitter is used. If the blitter is emulated  it
  is  about  2.5  times  slower  since  the  old routines uses special optimized
  blitting code. It should now be quite simple to replace these routines so that
  they read/write chunky data instead of planar.

o Removed quite a bit of obsolete code, mainly all left over code from  the  old
  ai system. Results in a smaller exacutable and faster compilation time.

o Created a generic function for loading graphics. This  function  automagically
  unpacks the gfx if it has been packed, so most gfx files are now packed saving
  quite a lot of diskspace. The packer are a simple ByteRun1 encoding.

o The setupprogram should now filter out all non  8bit  CybGfx  modes.  No  more
  playing Scions on a 24 bit True Color screen :)

o Degraded the setupprogram from  1.7 to 0.8, since version 0 is more logical at
  this stage then version 1.

o Beware!!! The enemy militias now attacks  when  encountered  again.  And  they
  still bring their friends...

o Reimplemented the intro. All pictures are still only 320x200 and are centered
  on the screen.

o Remade the "troop-selected-boxes" a little, just to see what you  think  about
  it.

o Spent a little time cleaning up various parts of the  code.  Lots  of  totally
  ancient #define's, structure members etc removed.

o Added experience levels to units. The units have (for the moment)  each  three
  experienselevels.  Units  can  gain experience in a number of differennt ways.
  Each time a unit hits an emeny in battle, he gains experience.  Since  farmers
  aren't  involved  in  battles,  units  also  gain  experience  when delivering
  resources to the inn. The more experience a unit get, the better  he  becomes.
  Attributes like hitpoints, damage, carry ability and simular may increase when
  a new experience level is reached. The only way to see what level  a  unit  is
  currenly on is on his name bar. In the future it might happen that experienced
  unit get new intresting orders. A message is displayed when a  unit  reaces  a
  new level.

o Added bars for units to show experience and resources carried. These bars  are
  only displayed for friendly units.

o The background of the resource digits are now taken from the backdrop image.

o Minor change to the namefield made. Characters like  p,  f,  t  etc  now  look
  better.

o Changed the behaviour of farmers when they are attacked. Now  they  drop  what
  they are currently doing and retreats to the nearest inn. If they are followed
  by the enemy, they will defend themselves at the inn, rather then just waiting
  to  die.  Note  that IF they survive the attack, they will have forgotten what
  they where doing and must be  given a new order. The same thing happens when a
  RETREAT order has been given.

o Population pool now increases again.

o If a farmer harvesting tree runs  out of forest to cut down, he now returns to
  the inn and enters GUARD mode.

o Farms can now only build Farmers.

o Blacksmiths can now only build Militias.

o Added a simple code system for the levels.

o If an error occured and a unit ran an infinitive orderloop, more detailed info
  are now displayed.

o A farmer reparing/building a house will use the reqources  he  carries  before
  using the "global" resources.

o A retreating farmer carrying resources will now also enter the inn.

o New system for "population control". In addition to the previous system  where
  you  got  to  have  a citizen to train a new unit, there is now a limit of the
  maximum number of units you can have.  This  limit  in  rasied  when  specific
  houses are build (now farms and inns).

o Added the GROWTH bar to the wells.

o Added the UNITS bar to the farms (name will problaby be changed).

o Healing units now costs resources.

o Farmers are now animated while repairing/building houses. Temporarily uses the
  attack/cut tree animation until we got some real repait gfx.

o Added a DROP_SOME_RESOURCES order to make it possible for a farmer to get  rid
  of resources it carries without having to take them to the inn.

o Rewrote the overviewmap routines. Now you will have  a  overviewmap  on  every
  possible screen size and every possible mapsize.

o Goldmines now "collapses" when all their gold had been taken out.

o By pressing RETURN, you can now scroll to the object that caused a message  to
  be shown.

o Fixed minor bug in the PATROL order.

o All intuition keyboard replacemens for the mouse now works (Amiga-Left Alt  ==
  Left Mouse Button etc).

o When GUARDing troops are bored, they now amuses themselfs by turning every now
  and then.

o You can no longer repair destroyed houses.

o Replaced the PT-replayer code with the new code supplied in  ahi  v2.6.  Seems
  like this code works better then the old (sounds better).

o Changed the way creating/healing units works. Training units  now  works  like
  building  houses.  The unit is created with a minimum of hp, and is the healed
  until full hp is reached and the unit can exit the house. As a side effect  of
  this, all houses that trains units will be able to heal them too, and they can
  hold a maximum of one unit at a time. The old PROGRESS bar  has  been  devided
  into  two  new,  TRAINING  and  HEALING.  Later  on we will problaby implement
  somekind of "Make Units exit the house" order. This order will then  NOT  work
  while  training  units (then there will be an "Abort training" order instead).
  The reason for this is that it is not logical  that  you  should  be  able  to
  release  units  only  half  trained,  like it is not logical that houses under
  construction can train units.

o Default Actions now works on the overviewmap too.

o If a new order was given to a unit while he was entering  a  house,  that  new
  order  tried  to  start running when the unit was fully inside the house. This
  caused an error and the unit got stuck inside the house forever. Now that  new
  order does not start until the unit has exited the house.

o If a house was destroyed while a unit was entering the house,  that  unit  did
  not  die  but  was  left  alive, unusable and unselectable and overwalkable by
  others. Now that unit, along with all the units still in the house, will  die.
  Only units leaving a house that gets destroyed will survive.

o Took the first steps in implementing Load and Save.

o Added new units Archer, Scout and ship.

o Added the Arrow projectile for the archer.

o New graphics for burning wells.

o Minor change in the unit sfx system. There are now two  more  definable  sound
  for each unit (repair and harvest), and it is now also possible to define when
  in the animation the sound should start.

o Made the feature of "direction modification" dynamic. Dirmod means the in
  certain animations, the unit should not face the opponent directly. Look at
  the militia attack. They turn 45 degress to the right before they attack.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0.17

o Added an UNLOAD command, so that troop carrying other troops may  get  rid  of
  them too. The "Testing Troop" on the level 'test.map' has this order.

o Fixed a bug that would cause a corrupt orderstream if  an  unit  recieved  two
  interrupts on the same frame. An example of this is that if you entered a ship
  with two troops at the same time, the ship got one interrupt message from each
  of  the boarding units. This resulted in a lot of enforcerhits when the ship's
  next order had finisihed. A unit should now  be  able  to  handle  up  to  255
  interrupts in one frame.

o Removed a bug that could made the troop walk on terrains it shouldn't be  able
  to,  if that terrain was undiscovered when the troop started to trace the path
  to walk. This happend due to the stepbuffering introduced in 0.16.

o Spent some time fixing the move-orders for big units, which should now work
  quite ok. Be aware that the pathfinder is only capable of finding paths for
  small troops for the moment. Big troops will still use the pathfinder, but it
  might happend than an illegal path is selected for them because they are to
  big to fit into certain parts of the map. When this happens the big unit will
  complain about a corrupt orderstream and put the unit into GUARD mode. You
  DON'T have to report this as a bug :)

o Compiled all sources, using all kinds of optimizations in SAS/C, twice. Once
  for 020 and once for 060. Please check if there are any noticable speedups
  (the 060 version SHOULD(!) run faster on a 060 then before). I want to know if
  it's worth the time compiling it (took about 1 hour to compile it).

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0.16

o Scions now buffers the steps traced by the pathfinder again. The advantage  of
  buffering  steps is that the  troop don't have to retrace a path for each step
  he makes, thus saving a lot of  time.  The  disadvantage  is  that  the  troop
  becomes  more  stupid,  since he don't react on changes in the map. Unlike the
  previewversion, this buffering should work a lot better  because  of  the  new
  order-command  system.  The number of steps buffered are now also variable and
  is currently hardcoded to 8. It might happen that this becomes  some  sort  of
  "Very Advanced Setup" in the future, allowing the user to select between speed
  and intelligence himself.

o Fixed a minor bug introduced in 0.15.  The GUARD icon is now set when an order
  is finished.

o Fixed Enemy Milita gfx (the blit-masks where wrong).

o Fixed a bug that made Default Action to  become  unfunctional.  This  bug  was
  problably introduced in 0.15.

o Fixed a bug that caused a troop to ignore all order either after he  had  been
  created  and  had moved out of the house, or if you had previously told him to
  enter a house.

o Tracked down  a  little  memoryleak  (12  bytes).  Even  though  the  internal
  resourcetracking found and freed the leak, there's no reason not to remove it.

o Removed another bug introduced in 0.15. When a house was destroyed the  proper
  FreeVec()  rountine  wasn't  called.  Instead of calling the resource tracking
  routine (trFreeVec()), exec.library/FreeVec() was called  instead.  This  made
  the resource tracking very confused and caused a number of enforcer hits.

o If an unit has been told to board another unit (a ship for example), and that
  unit is moving, the boarding unit will follow after it.

o Gosh... Sometimes I wonder why we didn't do a Civilization clone instead.. How
  easy it would have been... Added a little feature that will look like a simple
  one, but which in fact is among the most complicated stuff in the game so far.
  If  a  troop  is  going  to  board another troop (a ship), then a lot of stuff
  happens. The first unit (A) sends a message to the ship (B) telling it A  want
  to  enter it. When B receives this message, it replies to A that it is waiting
  for A to enter, at  the  same  time  that  unit  B's  current  orderstream  is
  interrupted. Then when A is fully inside B, A sends a third message telling it
  it's inside, and B continue with its old orderstream. This  should  work  well
  even if one of the units is killed in the middle of this message exchange, but
  please, DON'T give unit A a new order, 'couse it will  problaby  make  unit  B
  wait forever (or unit you give it a new order)...

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0.15

o Fixed a bug in the ATTACK order. If you attacked for example the center  of  a
  3x3  building  the  order would enter an inifinitive loop. The reason was that
  the script didn't see that it could attack the edge of the house,  but instead
  tried to walk closer to the center of the house, which it couldn't.

o The enemy militia now acts  as  in  the  preview  version  (0.6).  This  means
  attacking your units/houses and calling for help.

o Took the first steps to include Load and Save by rewriting the  routines  that
  allocates and initializes units and houses.

o If you had the active order on the current ordermenu (i.e an ordericon pressed
  down)  and  then  used  the  keyboard  to select an order on another menu, the
  downpressed icon on this menu was not "unpressed". This has been fixed.

o If you aborted an order during a MOVE, the next square the unit  was  supposed
  to go to was reserved for that unit. This made it, for example, impossible for
  anyother units to use that square. Fixed.

o Cleaned up the unit structure a little bit.

o Started lightly to reimplement big troops. You can find a  big  troop  in  the
  test.map level, (yes, I made the gfx for it :) Don't expect it to work ok...

o Fixed linebrakeing in messages. The message is now broken on spaces, tabs  and
  NULLs. This will make long messages MUCH easier to read.

o Implemented a simple internal resource  tracking  system.  Certain  calls  are
  tracked  and remembered. If the game finishes unnormally (low memory or such),
  all those calls will be freed by the exit code. Currently calls to AllocVec(),
  Open()  and  Lock()  are  tracked.  WARNING!!! In order to be able to test how
  these things work now and then you can deny some things to happen. For example
  you  can  make  the next AllocVec fail to see how the game reacts on it. To do
  this you need to  have  and  external  textterminal  or  another  computer  or
  something  hooked  up  on  the  serial  port.  By  pressing down 'a', the next
  AllocVec() will fail. 'l' and 'o' are used for  Lock()  and  Open().  So  once
  again...  DO  NOT  play  ANY  betaversion while using a modem or such. Strange
  things may happen!!!!

o Due to the implementation  of  the  Resource  Tracking,  I've  now  done  some
  low-memory  actions.  If  you  run  out  of  memory  and  an  AllocVec() (Only
  AllocVec()) fails, Almagica will bring up an Alert giving you  the  choice  to
  either  quit  Almagica now, or wait in 10 seconds and retry the AllocVec(). In
  these 10 seconds the  user  have  the  chance  to  close  down  stuff  in  the
  background  and thus freeing memory. In the future I will make it possible for
  each subsystem (units, houses, sound etc) to "flush", i.e removing and freeing
  unused  memory.  That will make the game run on lesser memory but will instead
  increase diskaccess. Note that ONLY failed calls to AllocVec() is noticed now,
  but  since  almost  all memoryallocations is done through AllocVec() (with the
  exeption of the order-ai-memorypool) this is not a problem.

o New gfx for water (not perfekt yet, will change more)...

o Militia's should now react on attacks. When they  are  attacked,  the  current
  order  is  interrupted  and  the milita responds to the attack. If he wins the
  fight, then he should return to the original order.

o Minor change in the setup program. When the CybGfx  checkbox  is  checked,  it
  doesn't automagically selects "Bitmaps in fast" to.

o Minor change in the  install script. You are now  asked if you wish to install
  AHI.

o This install script should  now install AHI properly. The problem was that the
  files in  DEVS:AudioModes did  not have  any version  strings in them,  so the
  installer command (copylib ...) failed.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0.14

o From now on 'recent changes' will be written in english. This because that  we
  now  have  our  first  non-swede betatesting-like person. And as usual with my
  english, please don't  mind  the  numerous  grammar/spelling  errors  :)  Will
  translate the rest of the file later when I'm boored enough :)

o Fixed a minor bug concerning attacks. The skeletonfile for the militia falsely
  said  that  the attackrange was 0 instead of 1. This made the attack order get
  stuck in an infinitive loop if a militia attacked diagonally.

o Fixed a bug that could cause an enforcer hit or a freeze when a troop died  of
  violence.  The  reason for this bug was that I've started to include code that
  will make troops react correctly when they are attacked. This code was not  at
  all  finished  and  not tested at all, and gave the troop a couple of hundreds
  MOVE orders.

o After a house has been built, it is now given the correct orderboxes.

o Removed some obsolete order-vars from the house structure.

o If a housebuilding order is cancelled, the housebox is now removed.

o Fixed a bug regarding the order-assignment and orderbox-highlightning. Suppose
  you  gave a troop an order to move to point A. After the troop have started to
  move, but before he reaches A you prepare a new moveorder by  pressing  either
  the  MOVE-icon  or  pressing  M.  You  only  prepare  it,  you  don't select a
  coordinate. Now the troop will ofcourse keep moving towards point A.  When  he
  reaches  A that move order is completed and he gets a GUARD order. Before now,
  the result of this was that the GUARD icon was  activated  and  the  new  MOVE
  order   was   forgotten,   but   the   troop  was  still  in  "i'm-waiting-for
  you-to-select-a-coordinate-to-go-to" mode (move-mousepointer  etc).  When  you
  now  selected  a  coordinate the troop ignored it. This is quite a complicated
  part of the code and I do hope that it will work ok from now on.

o The militia attack animation does not flicker each animationcycle any longer.

o A bug in the setup was fixed (now 1.7). If you where really unlucky with  AHI,
  it  was  possible to end up with a setup.config file that stated that the user
  wanted to use one channel. Since the game requires, and  uses,  a  minimum  of
  four channels, you got LOTS of sexy enforcerhits.

o Introduced a new switch, "No Audio". When this switch  is  used,  AHI  is  not
  opened  and  no  sound  at  all  is loaded into memory. If you think this is a
  pointless option, then  watch  out  for  the  "might-come"  switch  named  "No
  Graphics" (no, it's not a joke)...

o In the BUILD HOUSE and REPAIR HOUSE orders, the farmer now actually  turns  to
  face the building.

o The population pool is now  increased  again.  Actually  if  was  possible  to
  increase  it  before, but only if you was (un)lucky enough to allocate a house
  structure on address $0 :)

o Enemy farmers now act as they did in the preview (0.6), i.e. chopping down and
  digging stuff.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0.13

o The Setup program can now be started even if AHI isn't installed

o Maximum number of audiochannels that can be used is now limited to the  number
  that the audiodriver can handle, but no more then 16384 channels.

o Added support for AutoScroll and Overscan (setup 1.5)

o Units created by a house now gets a NAI_MOVE_OUT order. This  means  that  the
  troop now actually walks out of the house, instead of standing GUARD inside it
  :)

o Reimplemented RETREAT.

o Created a REPAIR HOUSE order. This is the default action for  a  farmer  on  a
  damaged house.

o Made a change in princip when building houses. When the house is created, it's
  created  with only 1 HP. The rest of the building in then the same as reparing
  a damaged house. The difference is that a  damaged  house  still  can  perform
  orders  and such, while a house that being built cannot do a thing. This means
  also that several farmers can  assist  eachother  while  building.  The  first
  farmer  builds the house and the rest assists by repairing it. This also means
  that building new houses in the middle of an attack isn't such a bright  idea,
  because the house can then very easily be destroyed.

o Removed 2 "Emulate Blitter" bugs. The first one occured after a cleanup in one
  of  the  cpublit  routines  which resulted by mistake that the intructions was
  move.l AMOD(a6),a0 instead of add.l AMOD(a6),a0. The second  bug  was  that  I
  have  changed  the format of the setup.config file, changing the offset to the
  flagsfield. And of course I forgot  to  change  and  recompile  the  assembler
  sources. The effect was that the real blitter was used.

o If you start building a house ontop of the farmer, he now moves away before he
  starts building.


o If the construction area is  occupied  by  something,  the  builder  will  now
  complain ever now and then to inform you of the problem.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0.12

o Units now walks by other units standing still, instead of waiting for them  to
  move away.

o If an order generated a MOVE-order which  wasn't  necessary,  the  unit  first
  turned to the right. This has been fixed.

o No longer requires AHI. If ahi.device couldn't be opened, you simply just  can
  use any sound.

o The HARVEST TREE order now searches in a radious of 2 instead of only 1.

o Removes a small bug that made the ordericons not to be properly  updated  when
  using the keyboard.

o All messages is now displayed on 3/4 of the maparea, instead of as  before  on
  line #100.

o The settings and Setup files is now read and save to/from ENV: and ENVARC:  if
  PROGDIR:  is  writeprotected  (which problaby means the game is on a CD). This
  apply to both the game and the setup (1.4). This also means that  these  files
  no longer will be a part of the dist, so remember, ALWAYS start by running the
  Setup program...

o Reimplemented the BUILD HOUSE order. The unit building  the  house  no  longer
  enters  the house and dissapears, but instead stand outside the house building
  it (settlers-like). There is no animation for housebuilding yet. If  the  unit
  dies  while building the house, the house stops building. To continue building
  the house, it must be REPAIRed and that order is not available yet.

o GUARD order icon is now updated correctly when an order is finished.

o Units now dies directly when they dies, and not when the feel  they  got  time
  over to die.

o Fixed the installer-script. AHI is now part  of  the  game-archive.  Only  the
  PAULA-driver  is  included. There is a strange bug in the script, on lines 139
  to 148 (the part that installs DEVS:AudioModes).  All  installation  regarding
  AHI  before  these  lines  is  ok,  like  the  creation of the DEVS:AudioModes
  directory. What happens next is quite funny. If you check  with  SnoopDos  you
  will  find that the (foreach ...) statement is able to Lock() all the files in
  AHI/AudioModes, but fails to Open() them. It is NOT  the  fileprotection  that
  causes  this. Since this part is identical to the part which installs DEVS:AHI
  (which works), I'm utterly confused.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0.11

o Almagica now detaches itself from the shell. All errormessages are now written
  to a requester, instead of to the shell.

o New ordercommand system implemented. Some old  orders  (GUARD,  MOVE,  PATROL,
  HARVEST) are rewritten to the new system. There are still some known bugs. For
  example, a new path is traced each time the troop  arrives  to  a  new  square
  which  means  that walking long distances, or walking with plenty troops, will
  be very slow. If a troop is standing in the way for another  troop,  the  last
  one will wait until the first one has moved out of the way, instead of walking
  around him. Some old bugs should now be removed forever, like  the  fact  that
  the  troop  liked  to  go  into GUARD all the time and forgot what the heck he
  where supposed to do. A troop should return to GUARD now only when  the  order
  is  finished,  something  went  wrong (no path found etc) or you've run out of
  memory (in which case you will get a lot of other problems too).

o One more thing worth mentioning. I will no more remove all KPrintF()'s in  the
  betaversions, so you will problaby not want to run a beta version while you're
  using the serial port. Note that this only applies to internal beta  versions,
  NOT official demo versions.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0.10

o Modified ALL parts in the code that checked who a house or a unit belonged to.
  With the old method, we could only have friendly, enemy and neutral units. Now
  we will in princip be able to have how many sides as we wish (not  dymanically
  though).  Each  side  should be considered either as Allied, Enemy or Neutral.
  The code are also consistent now when  checking  for  alliance,  before  there
  where  about  three  diffrent  ways  to  check  it  and  they  where  all used
  (CHAOS!!)...

o Started to work on 'Default Actions' (or whatever we  should  call  it).  This
  means  that the troop does whatever he thinks you want him to do when you wish
  him to do it, even if you don't tell him exactly what it is you  want  him  to
  do...or  something...  Anyway,  you  give an 'Defaul Action' order by pressing
  ALT-RMB (yeah, yeah, I know... You WILL be able to choose how to  activate  it
  later :)

o Fixed a scroll bug that occured when the 'Bitmaps in FAST' option was used.

o Added support for AHI. Because of this, a whole bunch of new sexy gadgets  has
  been  added  in  the  setup program (1.3). They are "Select Audio Mode..." and
  "Audio Channels". In the in-game menys, you will later be able to select  what
  kinds  of  sounds  you  want  to  head.  The  options  should be 'Music Only',
  'Music/Sfx', 'Mood/Sfx', and 'No Sound'. 'Mood' is sounds played depending  on
  whatever  is  currenly visible on the screen (waves sounds, small furry animal
  sounds etc). The volumes for the tree different soundstypes will be separately
  adjustable.

o Because of the AHI-support, it's now possible to switch between music and  sfx
  "on  the  fly".  You  don't have to select "Music", then "Save" and "Quit" and
  restart it all... Great, huh ? :)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0.9

o Units are no longer drawn on the first row below the maparea.

o A parts of the map are now drawn in the beginning.

o Added a limit for the number of  ordercommands  each  unit  may  execute  each
  frame.  If  the limit (40) is exceeded, the order is considered out of control
  and a message will be displayed while the  troop  is  placed  in  GUARD  mode.
  Hopefully most situations where the game freezes depends on this.

o The background of the ordericons, statusbars and the namefield are now correct
  (copied from the backdrop picture).

o Removed an unessecary KPrintF() from the setup.

o Rewrote the routines that draws mapblocks. The new ones are about 10% faster.

o Removed a minor bug the forced the entire maparea  to  be  redrawn  unessecary
  when you tried to scroll "out" of the map.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0.8

o The new order-issue system now works for houses too.

o Removed a buf that undiscover()ed wrongly when a unit  entered  another  unit.
  The  unit TestTroop on the level levels/test.map is the only unit for now that
  can carry other units, and then only farmers.

o Units can now enter squares which they shouldn't be allowed to  enter,  if  on
  that square is something that this unit is going to enter.

o The ordericons are now updated when you tab-selects units.

o Started to implement dynamic screen size. Because of this there  is  no  intro
  and  only  partially working background in this version. Beside of this, there
  should be quite a lot of new intressting bugs. With AGA you will problaby only
  want  to  run around 320x200 since any resolution above this will cause a huge
  drop in chipmem bandwidth. CyberGraphX users will problaby not want to run any
  larer  resolutions  then  640x480,  since larger resolutions will make it very
  hard to see your units. The width of the screen MUST be an even count of 64.

o Due to the above, these changes where done in the setup program (1.2)...
  o Added Width and Height gadgets in the Screen mode requester.
  o The Screen Mode Requester now allows interlaced modes.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0.7

o Minor change in the hurthouse() function. The houses now continues to  animate
  while they are hurt.

o Forgot to set the WFLG_NEWLOOKMENUS in the setup progam => black menus  unless
  you ran (like me) some patch. Has been fixed.

o Added an TEXT_KIND gadget below "Select Screen Mode..." to show  which  screen
  mode currently selected.

o Remade the order-issue system. Now all orders are devided into  three  groups,
  action  orders, build house orders and train unit  orders. The order icons are
  now built around a couple of menus (one menu for each group of  orders)  where
  each  menu can, if needed, be devided up in a number of submenus. Only the six
  topmost icons are now used for real orders, the last three are  used  to  jump
  around in the menu system. The icons will be organized so that the most common
  orders are placed "on the first page". A lot of  code  has  been  changed,  so
  expect quite a lot of new bugs. This has not been implemented for houses yet.

o Made a minor change in the palette. Color 17-20 are  now  white,  so  now  all
  cybgfx  mousepointer  SHOULD  look ok. A minor flaw is that these colors where
  (are) used on the units too :)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0.6  First Preview Release - Late July 1996

o Började så smått att inkludera kod för att kunna få en trupp att bära en annan
  för att senare kunna ha fraktskepp och likn.

o Lade till HSX och HSY keyworden  (Hot  Spot  X  resp.  Y).  Detta  därför  att
  hotspotten under CybGfx inte riktigt funkar som det ska (alt. jag gör fel :)

o Tog bort i stort sett ALLA  tooltypes/keywords  och  flyttade  in  det  i  ett
  externt setup-program (setup). Kör setup-programmet för att configga saker som
  displayid, blitter emulering etc..

o Tog bort liten bug från intro-koden.

o Modifierade Install skriptet lite grann.

o Skuggade Load och Save i menyn.

o Tog bort Another World samplingarna från gubbarna.

o Bytte lite introgfx.

o Kan inte kontrollera fiender längre.

o Farmers kan nu bara skapa tre typar av hus, Wells, Farms och Blacksmiths.

o Lite ny (temorär ?) grafik till orderboxarna.

o Tog bort mindre bug från hus-byggar funktionen.

o Tog bort bug från hus-animationsystemet. Nu kan man animera hus  med  gfxfiler
  över 32k.

o Tog  bort  bug  från  audio-sfx-hanteringen.  Nu  spelas  inte  ljud  om  inte
  audiodevice har öppnats.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0.5.18

o Fixade töntig bug som introducerades i 0.5.17 pga "kod-rensning" :) Skuggor  i
  höger/vänster kunde blev fel.

o Fixade annan töntig bug med kartan som gav fel y-kordinat om man valde ett mål
  på översiktskartan i zoomat läge.

o Intuition-muspekaren har nu rätt färger.

o Tog bort en bug ur Harvest-skriptet. När det tog slut på träd  att  hugga,  så
  högg  gubben  en  gång på en tom ruta, fick lite trä som han glatt tog med sig
  till Innet.

o En annan bug i Harvest-skriptet tog bort. Kunde inte hugga om man stog  brevid
  skogen som skulle huggas när orden gavs.

o Ökade max antal inns på en level från 8 till 32.

o Eftersom INTUITION mod nu är så pass snabbt, så verkar det ologiskt att  någon
  skulle  vilja  köra  View's som default. Därför har INTUIION switchen bytts ut
  till NOINTUITION. View's finns istort sett enbart  kvar  utifall  en  pre  V39
  version av scions skall göras.

o Kommer inget meddelande från fiendegubbar att en gruva är tom nu.

o Muspekaren återställs nu till ett kors när en ny level påbörjas.

o Ändrade hur en level avslutas som. Numera fryser inte allt i 2 sek  och  sedan
  tonas ner, utan ist så fortsätter spelet ngn sekund. Ser lite finare ut...

o Använder blittern för att kopiera ut bob-bakgrunderna istf  cpun.  Med  ca  84
  gubbar  synliga  så  ger  det  en  grov  total hastighetsökning runt 40% på en
  030/50.

o Bytte färg på texten i Options-menun.

o Ändrade lite i ai_move(). Nu så upptäcks nytt område direkt när gubber  kommer
  in i den nya rutan, ist för som tidigare först när han var helt inne i den.

o Som en bieffekt av ändringen i ai_move(), så  borde  gubbar  nu  gå  lite  mer
  intelligent när de förflyttas i grupp.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0.5.17

o Bytte icon-hilight-metod. En "aktiv"-bild ritas nu ut istället för att  släcka
  bitplan #7.

o Tog bort en bug som gjorde att gubbarna hackade till varje gång de gick  in  i
  en ny ruta.

o Synkroniserade hugg-ljud oxch hugg-gfx.

o Fixade en bug i ljudeffekterna. Ljud som bara skulle höras när det uppstog  på
  skärmen, hördes trots att de hände ngn helt annanstans.

o Om man kör i  INTUITION  mod,  och  intuition  allocerar  BMF_INTERLEAVED  och
  BMF_STANDARD  bitmappar,  så  rendras nu grafiken direkt till dessa bitmappar,
  istf för att rendras till  ngra  rendermappar  och  sedan  BltBitMap()as  till
  skärmen. Detta gäller inte när man avänvder FASTBITMAP eller NODOUBLEBUFFER.

o Ändrade blåfärgen för vänliga trupper och meddelanden till en som syns bättre.

o Tog bort titeln från fönstret när man kör INTUITION mod.

o Tog bort NODOUBLEBUFFER switchen. Scions kollar nu om DIPF_IS_DBUFFER är  satt
  eller  inte  for  skärmens  modeid  och  använder  den  för  att  bestämma  om
  dubbelbuffring skall ske eller ej.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


