                                 BoBo

Bobo is perhaps the oddest inmate of INZEESLAMMER. He's been there for 17
years now, and his biggest dream is to get out. He'll try anything to
escape, and sometimes he manages it. But inevitably he will be recaptured
to spend yet another night in his cell dreaming of the outside world.

INZEESLAMMER is a really peculiar prison which tends to make the inmates
behave childishly. Everything is an excuse for fun, even the daily chores
-which can get them into trouble.

CONFIGURATION

BoBo is compatible with:

         Amiga 500, 1000, 2000 with a color screen

A joystick is recommended.

LOADING & START-UP

1. Make sure that the computer is properly connected.
2. Turn on your monitor and computer. If necessary, insert Kickstart version
   1.2 into the disk drive.
3. When asked for a Workbench disk, insert the BoBo game disk into the
   disk drive. The program will load automatically.

                              (Page 2)

PRINCIPAL OF THE GAME

The program is divided into six separate games. When the menu appears,
you have to choose whether you want to play all of the games or just one
particular game.

NUMBER OF GAMES

Move the joystick or cursor keys to the left or right to make the number
of the game you want to play appear on the card in the bottom right-hand
corner of the screen. If you want to play all of the games, select ALL.
Confirm by pressing the fire button or space bar.

NUMBER OF PLAYERS

A dotted line will appear and you have to type your name using a maximum
of ten characters. Use the backspace to rectify a character. After typing
your name, confirm by pressing RETURN. If there is more than one person
playing (a maximum of six players is allowed), each player has to input
his name. If you make a mistake, press ESC in order to go back to the
selection menu. When the last player has typed his name, press RETURN twice.
The game will load automatically.

DEMO

If you press RETURN without inputing a name, a demonstration of each game
will be shown. Press ESC to leave the demonstration.

HIGH SCORE: This is the best score obtained in one game.

VERY HIGH SCORE This is the best score obtained in the whole 6 games.

                              (Page 3)

COMMANDS COMMON TO ALL 6 GAMES

P     To pause the game. Press any key to continue.
ESC   Quits the game and returns to the menu.
F1    Shows a demonstration of the actual game. Press ESC to quit.

At the end of each game, press the space bar or fire button in order to
make the next game load.
The game can be played with a joystick or keyboard (cursor keys).

THE CANTEEN

BoBo is on duty and has to save six prisoners who arrive one by one, then
give them a second helping when they ask. All of this must be done very
quickly because the prisoners can get really mad if they're not served
immediately.

COMMANDS

To move BoBo:

                                  North
                                    |
                             West -- -- East
                                    |
                                  South

BoBo can only walk up and down the room when he is situated in the middle.

To serve one ladle of soup, press the fire button or space bar.

To take a full saucepan, press the fire button or space bar.

                              (Page 4)

Every now and then, BoBo has to replace the empty saucepan with a full one
(which is on the serving hatch). Move BoBo towards the hatch and press
the fire button or space bar.

SCORE

You gain points each time BoBo serves a ladle of soup.

PREPARING POTATOES

BoBo has to peel a pile of potatoes which gradually gets bigger as he goes
along. He has to do them as quickly as possible so as not to be surrounded
by potatoes.

COMMANDS
                               |
1) To take a potato:           V

2) To peel a potato:      <-- and -->

3) To throw a potato: Fire Button or Space Bar.

N.B.  The potato in BoBo's hand is represented by a large potato situated
at the side of his chair so that you can see if it has been peeled properly.
If it hasn't, it will be thrown back onto the pile!

SCORE

You gain points for each properly peeled potato and a bonus each time you
finish peeling all the potatoes in the pile.

                              (Page 5)

WASHING

Washing the floor is the chore that he likes least, because the other
prisoners are inclined to walk on it. They leave footprints everywhere so
he has to start all over again so that it is immaculately clean when the
prison warden inspects it.

COMMANDS

BoBo's movements whilst washing:

                               North
                   North West    |    North East
                             \       /
                       West --       -- East
                             /       \
                   South West    |    South East
                               South


To obtain the diagonal directions on the keyboard, press two keys at the
same time               ^
          (e.g. <-- and | for North West).

When BoBo is not washing the floor, he will move faster if you press the
fire button or space bar and a direction.

N.B.  Sometimes, you have to soak the mop in the bucket (which will only
appear when it's needed). To do this, press the fire button or space bar
whilst BoBo is near the bucket. You can prevent people from entering by
positioning BoBo in front of the door which is half-open.

                              (Page 6)

SCORE

You gain points whilst you are washing the floor (moving the mop). You get
more points if you make someone turn back and even more if you stop someone
from entering.

A Bonus is gained according to the state of the floor when the warden
enters.

THE TRAMPOLINE

It is the warden's break-time in INZEESLAMMER and the prisoners have decided
to take advantage of it by trying to escape. They jump from their cell
window and BoBo is responsible for catching them on the trampoline so
that they can jump over the outer wall.

COMMANDS

BoBo moves the trampoline:  <-- and -->

N.B.  The prisoners love jumping on the trampoline. The more you make them
jump, the more points you gain when they jump over the wall.

SCORE

You gain points each time a prisoner jumps over the wall. An additional
bonus is awarded according to the number of bounces the prisoners made
before jumping over the wall.

SCORE

You gain points each time a prisoner jumps over the wall. An additional
bonus is awarded according to the number of bounces the prisoners made
before jumping over the wall.

                              (Page 7)

THE ELECTRIC WIRES

BoBo succeeded in escaping from the prison and he runs along three
electrical wires, jumping from one to the other so as to avoid being
electrocuted.

COMMANDS

To make BoBo jump to the left:     <--

To make BoBo jump to the right:    -->

N.B.  Watch out for the sparks. Try to take the green cylinders. The game
gets quicker as you go along.

SCORE

The number of points is calculated according to the length of time BoBo
stays on the wires. A bonus is gained each time BoBo touches a green
cylinder.

THE DORMITORY

But, as we mentioned earlier. BoBo always returns to the prison in one
way or another. And in the evening in his cell which he shares with five
other prisoners, he couldn't sleep because of the snoring. He has to have
peace and quiet and the only way to silence their snores is to give them
a gentle nudge without waking them.

                              (Page 8)

BoBo's movements:

                        To go up the ladder
                                |
                  To go left --   -- To go right
                                |
                       To go down the ladder

To jump over the chamberpot: Fire Button or Space Bar.

To nudge a prisoner: Fire Button or Space Bar.

To go to bed: Fire Button or Space Bar.

N.B.  You have to try to sleep in your won bed. When you have managed
to stop all the prisoners from snoring. BoBo can go back to his bed to
sleep for a while until another prisoner snores... Mind the chamberpot:
if BoBo knocks it over, he will wake all the prisoners!

SCORE

You gain points when BoBo sleeps.

                              (Page 9)

============ Docs provided by THE HELLION  &  THE CORSAIR ===========

                The Next Generation / World of Wonders





