

      The Documentation for Captain Blood (English version)
      -----------------------------------------------------
                    (transcribed by Weedo Vark)


Save to disk:
-------------

    In CONTROL PANEL mode, insert an unprotected  formatted   disk 
into  your drive.   Click on the DISK icon when the onboard  clock 
has  passed 5 minutes.   You cannot save a game during  the  first 
five minutes of play.   The icon will flash for several moments if 
the save has aborted.  In that case you should check your disk and 
try again.  The saved file is called "BLOOD.CPT".



Loading a saved game from disk:
-------------------------------

    In CONTROL PANEL mode,  insert your disk containing the  saved 
file "BLOOD.CPT".  Click on the DISK icon BEFORE the onboard clock 
has  reached 5 minutes.   You cannot load a saved game after  five 
minutes of play.

    Should you wish to load a save game after the five-minute time 
limit, you'll have to reset the computer and reload the program.

     Only  sneaky types and defective clones save the  game  after 
every action!  You're neither of those, are you?



Exterior Vision:
----------------

    Simply click on this icon to switch from CONTROL PANEL mode to 
EXTERIOR VISION.

    To come back from EXTERIOR VISION to CONTROL PANEL mode, click 
on any inactive button (eye).



Galactic Map (Choosing a destination):
--------------------------------------

     In  CONTROL PANEL mode,  click on the GALACTIC  MAP  icon  to 
access a view of the HYDRA galaxy.



How to use the Galactic Map:
----------------------------

    First select your destination's X co-ordinate.  You do this by 
clicking  on  the red vertical selection bar which you  then  drag 
onto  the desired X co-ordinate.   In the left window you can  see 
the co-ordinates of Blood's finger.  The right window displays the 
chosen   co-ordinates   (the  co-ordinates  for   the   point   of 
intersection of the selection bars).

    Next, select your destination's Y co-ordinate.  You do this by 
clicking on the red horizontal selection bar which you then  place 
on  the  Y co-ordinate position of  your  choice.   As  previously 
stated, the chosen destination co-ordinates are at the point where 
the two selection bars meet.

    When  you have chosen your  destination  co-ordinates,  strap 
yourself in and click on the HYPERSPACE icon.

     To speed up the HYPERSPACE sequence,  click the right  mouse-
button at the beginning or during the sequence.



OORXX Contact Mission (Landing and piloting the OORXX):
-------------------------------------------------------

     In EXTERIOR VISION mode,  click on the OORXX CONTACT  MISSION 
icon.   The OORXX is teleported and lands immediately.   YOu  then 
have total flight-control of the OORXX with your mouse.   You  can 
climb,  dive and turn.  You are advised not to fly into mountains.  
If  the  planet  has defence systems,  you should fly  as  low  as 
possible.  When the OORXX is detected by the enemy, two red arrows 
will start to cross the screen towards each other.  When they meet 
in Centre-screen,  the OORXX blows up.  To avoid having your OORXX 
destroyed in this way,  dive as far as you can,  until the  arrows 
disappear.

    Life-forms in the Hydra galaxy have a weird habit of living at 
the very end of canyons.   You'll have to find the  canyons.   The 
OORXX  is  equipped with a life-form detector which is a  red  aim 
symbol.   It will follow the mouse's movement on the screen.  When 
the  detector flashes,  that means you're flying the OORXX in  the 
right direction.   If an arrow shows up beside the detector,  that 
means you must turn in the direction the arrow is pointing to  get 
onto the right heading.

    When a life-form is found at the end of a canyon, the OORXX is 
programmed to land immediately.   If the planet is  deserted,  the 
OORXX  will  land,  extremely exhausted.   If  you  are  currently 
transporting a being in the Ark's fridgitorium,  the TELEPORT icon 
will  activate so that you can teleport the being onto the  planet 
if you want.  To do so, just click on the TELEPORT icon.    

    At any time during the flight,  you can request a photo of the 
fractal scenery arount the OORXX.   Simply press the SPACE bar  on 
your keyboard.  The OORXX will stop.  To restart flying, press the 
SPACE bar again.



OORXX Destroy Mission (Destruction of a Planet):
------------------------------------------------

    In  EXTERIOR VISION mode,  you can teleport an OORXX  onto  a 
planet  in order to destroy it.   Just click on the OORXX  DESTROY 
MISSION icon.  The planet will be irretrievably zapped.



OORXX Geophoto Mission (Surface Scan):
--------------------------------------

     In EXTERIOR VISION mode,  you can teleport an OORXX into  low 
orbit  to  collect  aerial pictures  of  the  planet.   A  special 
detector  will  indicate  whether the planet is  equipped  with  a 
defence  system.   To activate this mission,  click on  the  OORXX 
GEOPHOTO MISSION icon,  once for a medium altitude scan,  and once 
again for a low altitude scan.  To return to normal mode, click on 
the EXTERIOR VISION icon.



Upcom Module (Universal Protocol of Communication):
---------------------------------------------------

     The dictionary window:   at the bottom of the  screen.   This 
icon dictionary uses two sideways scrollings, one rapid (activated 
by  clicking on a red elevator bar situated under  the  dictionary 
icon),  the  other slow (activated by placing Blood's finger  over 
two  red-striped boxes situated on either side of  the  dictionary 
icon).

     By moving Blood's finger over the dictionary  icon,  you  can 
read  a simultaneous translation of the icon into human  language.  
The translation window is just above the UPCOM.

    The conversation windows:   Situated above the dictionary icon 
and separated by a central mouth.

    a)  the left hand window:   reserved for the life-form  you're 
communicating  with.   To  translate his  (ofits)  messages,  move 
Blood's finger over them.  As long as the central mouth is moving, 
the being hasn't finished saying what he wants to say.   Click  on 
the central outh to read the next sentence.   When the mouth stops 
moving, you can start sending your message.

     It  is  possible to understand the sentences  spoken  by  the 
being, if you learn his language.  Each icon represents a specific 
speech-sound.

    b)  The right-hand window:   reserved for your use.   You  can 
enteryour messages by clicking on the icons of your choice in  the 
icon dictionary.  A small cursor under that window may be moved in 
order to insert an icon.   Simply click on it.  A delete option is 
available  -  click on the arrow situated to the right  under  the 
window.  To transmit your sentences, click on the central mouth.

    You can teleport a being into the fridgitorium,  if the  being 
agrees.   At hat moment,  the TELEPORT icon will be  enabled.   To 
teleport the life-form, click on the TELEPORT icon.

     Your conversational partner can,  for reasons best  known  to 
himself, break off the discussion at any time.

    If you want to leave the UPCOM during a conversation, click on 
the triangle at the right of the screen, under the DELETE arrow.



Teleport:
---------

    This icon is used to teleport a being from the planet into the 
Ark's  fridgitorium.   The icon will not be enabled until a  being 
with whom you are in conversation consents to be teleported.   If 
the  icon  is enabled and if you want to teleport  the  life-form, 
just click on the icon.
   


Disintegrate the Teleported Being:
----------------------------------

     When a life-form is teleported to the fridgitorium,  you  can 
decide to destroy the life-form by disintegrating it.  If it's one 
of  the NUMBERS,  Blood will recover some of his vital  fluid  and 
survive a little longer.



Fridgitorium:
-------------

     It's  a cryonization container where  teleported  beings  are 
conserved.  The beings in question must give their consent because 
the  teleport system uses psychic energy generated by the  being's 
will, a little like hypnosis.  For security reasons, living beings 
cannot be teleported into the Ark,  so they must by cryonized  and 
stocked in the fridgitorium.   The fridgitorium has a disintegrate 
crematorium feature which you can use if you feel like  it.   This 
feature  recovers  vital fluid,  and so Blood can use  it  on  the 
Numbers.   All  other  forms  of  vital  fluid  are  unfortunately 
incompatible  with  Blood's  organism.    NOTE:    Pacemakers  are 
automatically extracted before cremation,  so there is no risk  of 
explosion during the disintegration phase.



The OORXX Birth Ramp:
---------------------

     The layer is incorporated into the Ark's  structure,  in  the 
pram  zone.   This area is completely  sterile,  of  course.   The 
newly-laid   baby  OORXX  are  propelled  onto  the   birth   ramp 
immediately after a stress-free birth.   The layer is able to  lay 
endless numbers of babies.



Time:
-----

    Onboard time is displayed on the clock,  in Earthling  minutes 
and seconds.   The upcom takes account of the minutes only.  60.45 
means  60 minutes and 45 seconds,  which comes to HOUR 60 for  the 
UPCOM.  THE GAME IS LIMITED TO 45 REALTIME HOURS.



The Ark's Position (X, Y):
--------------------------

    This window indicates the X,  Y co-ordinates of the Ark in the 
Hydra galaxy.



The ? Command
-------------

    When the OORXX has already been placed on a planet,  it may be 
reactivated,  which saves you from having to pilot another through 
all those dangerous mountains.

     When  the Ark stops after a hyperspace jump,  near  a  planet 
you've  already visited,  simply switch to CONTROL PANEL  mode  by 
clicking on the closed (disenabled) button.  The ? command is then 
available and enabled.   Click on it to reactivate the OORXX.  You 
will inevitably catch up with the character you talked to the last 
time.




Playing Hints:
--------------

     Captain  Blood's Ark stops near an inhabited  planet  at  the 
start of the game.   The HYDRA galaxy is biggish,  boasting 32,768 
inhabitable  planets noted on the map.   Not all of them  actually 
have thinking life-forms living on them,  so it's easy to get very 
lost  and  see nobody for millions of years.   That's why  it's  a 
damned  good  idea  to  note  down  the  precise  co-ordinates  of 
inhabited  planets before plunging into the immensity  of  unknown 
space.   That  way,  you can always get back to a familiar  place.  
Ask any space jock:   trusting your luck is a non-viable  survival 
option.

     The program recreates the galaxy each time you begin a  game.  
That  means that co-ordinates of inhabited planets are  not  valid 
from one game to the next.

    Bear in mind that Blood is degenerating.   Don't be  surprised 
if his hand gets the shakes from time to time:  it's normal.  It's 
also a bad sign!   HE JUST GET HIS VITAL FLUID BACK.   That's  the 
only way he can regenerate.  To recover the vital fluid, Blood has 
to   find  the  NUMBERS  and  disintegrate  them  in   the   Ark's 
fridgitorium.

     This  software explores a new  concept,  the  BIO-GAME.   The 
characters  can  evolve,  be  born,  die,  trade  information  and 
generally get on with their own independent lives.  Strange things 
can  happen:   planets  can appear  or  disappear  overnight,  the 
behaviour of matter is out of our control!

    You can transport beings from one planet to another but you'll 
have  to win their trust first.   Study their  behaviour  closely, 
because  knowing who you're dealing with can mean  the  difference 
between life and death.
  



                A Brief Glossary of Fauna in Hydra
                ----------------------------------

Tricephals:   Very interesting genetically.  These guys have three 
              android heads,  each of which is equipped  with  an 
              amazing tongue.

Sinox:        Hardworking and intelligent, the Sinox ar the 
              technology whizzkids of the galaxy.

Antenna:      Simple creatures, the Antennas are really very friendly
              Maybe too friendly.

Tubularbrainers:  The only race so far known to have tubular brains.
              Their intelligence is quite peculiar and difficult to 
              grasp.

Tromps:       Inoffensive creatures, if somewhat stubborn.  Their
              hair is highly prized as snuff by the Sinox.

Robheads:     In a far off age, Hydra was invaded by bionic armies
              of android combat-robots with orders to take charge
              for a few thousand years.  When the Hydrans got fed up
              with them, things went hideously sour for the robots.
              A few decapitated units managed to keep some systems
              functioning.  They ar the Robheads.  They're just robot
              heads with a few memory zones still working.  Completely
              harmless, they just lie there.  They can't even
              reproduce, unless some passing geneticist....

Kingpaks:     Ridiculous creatures who smoke tromp tails (supposedly
              aphrodisiac) and eat pills.  Not very smart.  Rumor has
              it that they inspired the early Pac Man games.

Izwal:        Peaceful and generous beings.  Look almost human.
              Very cultured.  Masters of Science.

Buggol:       Beings with a particular social behaviour, being
              obsessively democratic.  All belong to YATANGA, which
              is the only political party around and whose one aim
              is to defend democrace as obsessively as possible.  The
              President's term of office is not fixed.  As soon as a
              Buggol attains a majority, he is elected.  Since all
              are eligible for high office, Presidents tend to change
              very frequently, sometimes every 5 minutes.  At the time
              this story begins the Buggol remains on ROSKO.  He can't
              be elected, owing to the shortage of electors.  He would
              need two more votes to become President to planet ROSKO.
              An imposter (a YUKAS), who doesn't even live on ROSKO 
              has got himself elected in a fixed election.  ROSKO is
              now in political upheaval.

Yukas:        Belligerent and underhand characters.  No class at all.
              Little is known of their customs.

Croolis:      Separated into two distinct evolutionary branches:
              Vareux and Ulves.  Each has always hated the other.

Migrax:       As their name suggests, they are great travellers.
              Highly intelligent, they carry the news around the
              galaxy.  Excellent negotiators.  Their slyness is
              legendary.

Ondoyantes:   Originally from planet Ondoya, these are dream creatures.
              They appear beautiful to those whom they like, and
              ghastly to those they detest.  This way, everyone knows
              where he stands.

Numbers:      Blood's clones.  There are 5 of them; Number 1, number 2,
              number 3, number 4, and that son of a bitch, number 5...



