			    Eye of Horus

                         Table of Contents

An Unfinished Legend............................................3

Getting Started.................................................4

Moving Through the Labyrinth....................................6

Scene on the Screen.............................................8

The Egyptian Gods...............................................10

The Amulets.....................................................13

Energy and Lives................................................14

High Scores.....................................................15

Secrets of the Scrolls..........................................15

				2

                     AN UNFINISHED LEGEND...

Our story - or at least part of it - is told in hieroglyphs on the walls of
a hidden tomb in ancient Egypt.  It's a tomb shrouded in a labyrinth of
painted passages - where the hieroglyph paintings have actually been known
to move - even come alive!

	The story, chiseled in stone, is about a once powerful king names
Osiris.  Osiris was a benevolent king, loved by all - except for one: his
half-brother, Set.

	Set tricked Osiris into lying in a chest.  Set then nailed the
chest shut and sent it down the Nile, hoping to end his brother's life.

	But just as the captive Osiris was about to breathe his last
breaths, his beautiful wife, the legendary Isis, found the chest with her
dying king.  In the joy of their reunion they conceived a son whose name
was Horus.  Osiris never lived to see his son - for he died in Isis's arms.
 She tried to hide his body, for fear that Set would find it.  But to no
avail...

	Set did find it.  And he tore the corpse into seven pieces,
scattering them throughout the tomb.

	Now it is well known that a soul can not lie in peace unless his
corpse is whole and properly placed in its sarcophagus.  Even his loved
ones are unable to rest until his body has been restored.

	And so it is that neither Osisis, nor his family - Isis and Horus -
are depicted on the final paintings inside the labyrinth.  And not until
Horus reclaims the scattered bones, returns them to the sarcophagus and
defeats the evil Set, will Osiris and his family reclaim their rightful
place on the eternal sandstone of the burial chamber.

	The unfinished legend is now up to Horus.  And up to you.

				3

                         GETTING STARTED

Loading Instructions

IBM PC and Compatibles

Note: IBM users look for a file called READ.ME.  If there is one, it is
important that you read this information.  This is the latest information
about Eye of Horus.  To read the file, type: copy a:read.me prn.

1. Insert the 'Eye of Horus' boot disk into the drive and from the MS-DOS
prompt, select the correct drive specifier.

Note: A Microsoft or compatible mouse may be used with Eye of Horus.  If
you want to use your mouse, install the mouse driver as specified in your
user manual at this point.  Your system must have at least 640K to properly
run Eye of Horus with a mouse.

2. Type HORUS and press RETURN.  Then indicate which graphics card you
have.  The game will now begin to load.
	
	Enter your Code to Begin.  Here's how: Using your Code Book, look
up these numbers given to you on the screen.

Codebook Page - 0
Row - 00
Column - 00

First find the correct page.  Locate the prescribed number along the left
side of the chart.  Then look for the designated number across the top of
the chart.

	The box that falls where the designated vertical and horizontal
rows coincide is your final code.  Type in this number and press the RETURN
KEY.

3. Joystick or Keyboard?

Before the game actually begins, you'll be asked to indicate whether you'll
be using a joystick or keyboard.

				4

To select JOYSTICK, press J.

To select KEYBOARD, press K.

Configuring your Keyboard

If you choose to use the keyboard, you'll be asked to indicate which
keyboard keys you'll be using.  You can use any combination of keys you
like.  Don't try to assign one key to two or more functions.

We recommend the following configuration:

	Direction		Recommended
	Control			   Keys
------------------------------------------------------

	LEFT			     4
	RIGHT			     6
	UP			     8
	DOWN			     2
	FIRE			  Space Bar
	PAUSE			     P

Note to Keyboard Users:

Much of this documentation is written as if you were using a joystick.  So
if you are using the keyboard instead, substitute the keyboard commands
you've set up.  For example, if the instructions say press the FIRE BUTTON
and the SPACE BAR is your "FIRE" key, then press the SPACE BAR to fire.

4. Press the FIRE BUTTON to begin game play.

				5

ATARI ST and Commodore Amiga

1. Turn off the computer and insert the 'Eye of Horus' disk into the drive.

2. Switch the computer on.  The game will now begin to load.

3. You will now be asked to type in your code. (See step 3, above.)

4. Press the FIRE BUTTON to begin game play.

Commodore 64/128

1. Turn on your computer and monitor.  Commodore 128 users should hold 
   down the Commodore key while booting.

2. Insert your Eye of Horus disk.

3. Type: LOAD "HORUS",8,1.

4. You will now be asked to type in your code. (See, step 3 of the IBM
   Loading Instructions.)

5. Press the FIRE BUTTON to begin play.

Hard Disk Installation

Putting Eye of Horus on your hard disk gives you a speedy, convenient way
to play.  Refer to your hardware manual for the proper way to copy files to
your hard disk.

Note: Amiga, Atari, and Commodore users will not be able to install Eye of
Horus on their hard disks, due to data compression.

				6

                   MOVING THROUGH THE LABYRINTH

As Horus, you start the game in human form.  In this form you can fire
papyrus darts, summond the aid of other gods and use the magic of the
sacred amulets.

	You can also change into a hawk - which gives you an advantage over
the powerful minions of Set.

	This is how to conduct your moves.

To move right or left, press joystick to the RIGHT or LEFT.

To go up or down, first enter an elevator in human form.  Then press the
joystick UP or DOWN.

	Note: some elevators are locked (indicated by the colored lock next
to the liftshaft).  So you must first obtain the proper key to get into
them.

	To fire papyrus darts or use other weapons, press the FIRE BUTTON.

	To turn into a hawk, press UP on the joystick (except when in an
elevator.

	To fly as a hawk, move the joystick in the desired direction.

	To spit bullets as a hawk, press the FIRE BUTTON.

Note: you cannot change back to a human while holding the Fire Button.

	To return to human form, fly low to the ground.

	To pick up keys, amulets, and body pieces, you must walk past them.
 They will then be placed in your inventory.  Horus can carry up to seven
amulets at a time, by only one body part.

	To select a key or amulet from your inventory, first pull the
joystick down and press the FIRE BUTTON.  This will open a boy in your
inventory.  Then move the joystick RIGHT or LEFT, to highlight the one
you'd like to use.  Then press the FIRE BUTTON.

				7

	Note: If you decide not to select anything from the inventory,
simply press UP on the joystick to return to control of Horus.

	Mouse Users: press your left mouse button once.  A pointer will
appear.  Point to the item you want to use, and click again with your left
mouse button.  One advantage to using the mouse is that you'll be able to
select and use objects while still in hawk form!

	To use a key, select the key from inventory whose color matches the
lock of the locked elevator.  Then move to the elevator and press the FIRE
BUTTON.

	Note: You cannot select to do anything while the elevator is
moving.

	To return a body part to the chamber, walk past the entrance of the
chamber and the body part will automatically be left there.

To pause the game, press "P".

To resume play, press ANY KEY.

				8

                       THE EGYPTIAN GODS

Horus was the Egyptian embodiment of all that is light and good.  He takes
to form of a hawk-headed humanoid, actually becoming a hawk to fly and do
battle.  Initially his magic is weak.  He must find charms and gain
assistance from Isis and Anubis to strengthen himself.

	Isis was the beautiful wife of Osiris.  Her courage and beauty
shine throughout her grief as she continues her task.  When summoned, she
will take with her a piece of Osiris's body to the burial chamber.  Set is
her brother and it is for this reason that she cannot help Horus destroy
Set.

	Anubis was recognized by the Egyptians as a guide to the dead, also
the son of Osiris and Nephtys (Set's wife.)  He usually takes a human form
with the head of a jackal.  At birth he was abandoned by Nepthys and was
found by Isis who reared him to be her protector.  He will show the same
loyalty to Horus as he does to Isis.  When summoned, Anubis will give Horus
an amulet to aid him in Set's destruction.

	Set was once a revered god, but since his treachery he has become
the embodiment of evil and night.  When enraged, he takes the form of a
dragon.  Whilst Horus is alive his claim to the throne will be disputed so
his first task is to seek out and devour Horus.  Set is over-confident in
victory however, and has tainted some of the tombs heiroglyphs with evil. 
He has hidden away in the deepest vaults of the tomb and left these minions
to destroy you.  If you get too close to him however, he will come to
destroy you himself.  When Set is close to Horus, the very walls of the
tomb will shake.

				9

	Osiris, the "King of Life" embodies all benevolent forces of nature
as well as the power which can defeat evil forces.  His symbol or
cosmological equivalent is the setting sun.  He hands over his earthly
realm to his son, Horus, and withdraws into the world of the Dead.  Osiris
is represented in human form, with a human head, usually as a mummy, with
his arms crossed.

		          THE AMULETS

You control Horus on the side of good, against the evil Set.  Isis and
Anubis will aid you as best they can but you will need to find the right
amulets to be able to summon them.

	Inside the confines of the labyrinth, you must locate and return
all seven of the pieces of Osiris's body to the burial chamber, and then
reconstitute the pieces with the use of the Tet amulet.  You will then
receive the strength that you need to confront Set.  To complete this dual
task you must use all of the found weapons and amulets which increase your
powers and aid you.

Amulet of the Heart.

The seat of the power of life, and the source of good and evil thoughts. 
This amulet will summon Isis only when she can help Horus.  Isis loved
Osiris very much and will help Horus as much as she can in reconstructing
the Unknown King's body.

				10

Amulet of the Scarab.

An insect of remarkable power.  Its ability to roll balls of dung along the
ground was associated with rolling the sun around the heavens.  It is
believed that if a God had such powers he would be most awesome indeed.

Amulet of the Buckle.

This buckle of Isis protects the wearer from 'him that would do unto him
anything that he holdeth in abomination'.  Archaeologists have taken this
to mean 'the passing of water upon a foe'.

Amulet of TET.

This amulet represents the tree trunk that Isis used to conceal the body of
her dead husband.  It is a highly religious symbol representing the
reconstituting of a body.

Amulet of the Pillow.

This pillow is found placed under the neck of a mummy in a coffin.  Thus it
is used to lay a creature to rest permanently.

Amulet of the Vulture.

The power of Isis as the 'divine mother' is given to Horus with this
symbol.  It can be used to vanquish Set's minions from a chamber but it
only holds strength in certain areas of the tomb.

Amulet of the Collar of Gold.

When worn around the neck, this holy symbol will free a man's soul from his
body for a short time.

Amulet of the Papyrus Scepter.

This amulet turns light, water and dung to papyrus.

Amulet of the Soul.

A human headed hawk made of gold inlaid with precious stone.  They say the
man who breathes life to the golden hawk will have the hawk by his side
until death.

				11

Amulet of the Ladder.

This ladder is used to escape from earth to heaven from the top of a
mountain, where the two are closest.  Osiris cannot allow any soul to leave
the tomb until the mural is complete, so use of this amulet by horus will
bring him to the place where he was given life.

Amulet of Two Fingers.

Represents index and medius fingers.  Use it with care to temporarily
vanquish all that lurks.

Amulet of the Eye of Horus.

Representation of the Sun.  It is said that no evil can stand in the way of
strong light.

Amulet of the Nefer.

This amulet is in the form of a musical instrument and represents good
luck.  It's blissful music will aggravate Set and tell you what he doesn't
want you to know.

Amulet of the Serpent's Head.

The power of Isis as the 'divine mother' is also given to Horus with this
symbol.  Like the amulet of the Vulture, it can be used to vanquish Set's
minions from a chamber but it will only work in different areas of the tomb
to the Vulture.

Amulet of the Menat.

When worn around the neck or carried in the hand this symbol represents
good health.

Amulet of the Sam.

Typical Egyptian representation of a penis, it will summond Anubis to aid
Horus with a gift.

Amulet of the Shen.

A symbol of eternity used to incapacitate new foes.

				12

Amulet of the Steps.

These steps up to heaven or the throne of Osiris in heaven are used to
examine a situation from a distance.  The 'situation' however, will only be
that discovered so far.

Amulet of the Frog.

Teaming with life and resurrection, this symbol gives Horus new life.

The Keys.

As well as the nineteen amulets, there are also eight keys of various
colors - yellow, red, green and blue scattered about the tomb which Horus
must use to unlock various lifts.  These lifts give access to the various
'sections' of the tomb.

                          USING YOUR MAP

Unlike many action advantures - where you have to create your own maps with
pencil and paper - EYE OF HORUS is self-mapping.  Which means the computer
(not yo) takes on the task of keeping track of where you are - and where
you've been.

	But in order to take advantage of this feature, you must first
locate the Amulet of the Steps.  Once you've done so, a map icon will be
displayed in the lower right section of the screen to indicate that it is
available to you.

To use the map, move the cursor to the map icon and press the FIRE BUTTON.

				13

                        ENERGY AND LIVES

HORUS starts the game with 3 lives and 100% strength.  Each time HORUS is
hit by any enemy, the scarab on the rope at the bottom of the screen will
move to the left, indicating a loss of strength.

	When the scarab reaches the far left end of the rope, HORUS will
die.

Extra Lives

Osiris can reincarnate you from the dead three times.  However, if you
possess the Amulet of the Frog, Osiris can give you one more reincarnation
(extra life).

                           HIGH SCORES

When the game is over, you will be given the opportunity to type your name
onto the high scores screen - if you've achieved one of the highest scores
ever played with this disk.  To see your name on the high score roster,
simply type in your name from the keyboard when prompted.

	Note: If your disk has a write-protect tab, high scores will not be
saved.

				14

                      SECRETS OF THE SCROLLS

* When HORUS is a hawk (quite advantageous for attacking animated
heiroglyphs), fire continuously while swooping towards the surface to avoid
turning back into a human.

* True, you must eventually overcome Set.  But take care not to provoke an
attack with him too early in the game, because at this time your strength
and resources will be too low to have a chance at winning.

* Set has hidden some of the amulets among the heiroglyphs - just to make
things even more difficult for you.  Make sure you comb every room
carefully - leaving no heiroglyph unturned, so to speak.

* Remember that you must be in human form to collect amulets or parts of
Osiris' body.

* The elevators are sacred. Once you are moving on one, up or down.  Set's
minions cease attacking.

				15

=============================================================================
Eye of Horus docs are brought to you by The Southern Star for M.A.A.D.
