                                    DRIP

By ART SKILES. Edited by PARASITE.


THE STORY
  Like...can you believe it!?

  It was the annual Bubble Bursters Bash in the basement and all the big
drips were there. When like right in the middle the party juice got
sucked up through the pipes! Totally tubular exit! Someone or some thing
had crashed our party. It was like this big flying crystal ball that spit
bolts of lightning. Everyone dripped for cover except this one drip that
was too cool to be... like... afraid. Like as fast as this ball came it left
crashing up through floors all the way to the 16th floor. And this one cool
drip pulls a detective gig and goes after it! Hope it's got insurance.

  It's up to you, Drip, to rust your way up 15 floors and get the juices
flowing again.

THE GAME
  Drip is an arcade style game with 15 floors (levels). You must move along
the pipes of each floor and rust them to advance to the next level. Every
3 floors completed will entitle you to a bonus round where extra drips can
be won. An extra drip will also be awarded for every 10,000 points. Bonus
rounds at the ends of floors 3 and 9 contain... ah... ah warp zones.
Something about the combination of hits. Collect as many drips as you can.
You'll go thru them like water.

  Avoid running or dripping into the acid, plasma and icecubes shooting out
of pipes. Also avoid electric bubbles and coils, lasers and the crystal
balls followers chasing you. Every now and then clouds float by and clean
the pipes. Stop them by dripping into them.

  You can get a little help from party balloons and bubbles that float by.
A red heart balloon will cause chasers to rust pipes. A yellow star balloon
will allow you to chase them. A flashing drip balloon makes you almost
invincible. Bubbles are useful for riding around in while still being able
to rust pipes. They also protect you from acid, plasma, icecubes and
electric coils. You may exit a bubble by pressing the firebutton.

  Floor 16 is where no drip has gone before. You must do what you do best
and then shut down the pumps atop the pipes by shorting out their flashing
switches. This may make the head honcho bent out of shape so be prepared.
Look for its weak spot and you'll go down in 'Drip' history with a golden
drip displayed next to your score (If you make the top ten).

TO PLAY
  Drip requires 512k of memory, including almost 300k of CONTINUOUS CHIP
MEMORY, and may be loaded from CLI or Workbench. From the CLI, type
"DripGame" and press RETURN (include the full pathname). From Workbench,
double click on its icon. Plug a joystick into port 2. Use the firebutton
to 'drip'. Pressing 'e' will exit the game. Pressing 'p' will pause.
Pressing 'i' will display a short information screen.  Press '1' or '2'
to play either a one or two player game. High scores will be saved to disk
if it is enabled. If no disk is present or the disk is write protected this
operation is bypassed without warning.

NOTE
  As mentioned above Drip requires almost 300k of CONTINUOUS CHIP
MEMORY. If Drip fails to load this may be the reason. Simply reboot and try
again.
