                        DUNGEON MASTER EDITOR

Typed in by PARASITE of LSD.


INTRODUCTION
This program allows you to do the following things to a DUNGEON MASTER game
file;

1) Alter the map at will to create short cuts, new passages etc.
2) Alter it so you can open doors during the game without using keys.
3) Remove secret doors.
4) Print out plans of all the forteen levels in the dungeon.

It will run in any screen mode (the higher the better) nad works by
altering a saved game file, not the original DM disk.

THE PROGRAM
The program works by changing thee data contained in the save game file.
you can thus use it to alter any saved position you have made. However, I
recommend that you only alter a copy of your saved position, for when you
wish to return to an unchanged game.

LOAD/SAVE
When either of these options are selected from the menu, you will be given
three options; OK, AUTO, CANCEL

OK will enable the selection of a save game with any filename by using a
standard program selector.
AUTO assumes that the file you wish to load/save is called the default
filename.
CANCEL is obvious.

CLEAR
Selecting clear will delete the save game currently in memory. For
technical reasons, clear must be used before workbench utilities may be
called. WARNING - The game in memory will be lost, so save first.

MAP
You can view any of the forteen levels on screen by selecting the
appropriate menu. Although the actual amp is extremely accurate, as are
positions of the doors and stairs, other items may not be so, and should be
treated as such. objects on.in walls (white dot in black square) include
torches, alcoves, writing, buttons, levers etc. Objects on floors (black
dot on white square) include normal objects and pressure pads.
Altering the map involves clicking on the appropriate map square to turn it
either into a (white) corridoor or a (black) wall. The left mouse button
will only change a normal wall or corridoor, but the right mouse button
will allow you to blank out anything.
WARNING - Blanking out anything other than a normal wall or corridoor will
certainly interfere with the game structure and may crash the game, as will
blanking out certain areas, such as around stairs which only meant to be
looked at from one direction.
Be careful at first and only use the left button, but take a risk later on,
as you can get some strange effects (such as looking at a door end on). But
the more you alter the greater the chance of something nasty happening.
UNDO will remove your most recent alteration.

CHANGE DOORS
This menu function will automatically change all the doors in the dungeon
to gates which can be opened by pressing a button next to them, so you
don't need keys. This is a naughty cheat and should only be used by
desperate adventurers. REMEMBER, you can't change the doors back to normal.
This function won't alter the doors on level one, as there's no need, and
some doors deeper in the dungeon won't be turned into gates. However, they
will have buttons you can press.

SECRET DOORS
This function automatically removes all secret doors, rather than have you
do it all by hand.

PRINT MAP
This function allows you to print out the current map.
