                        F-19 STEALTH FIGHTER TIPS

Typed in by SIDEWINDER.  Edited by PARASITE.


It's best to advance through the scenarios one by one.  That's if you want
to cause complete mayhem, earn medals and glory, follow this example
mission, a true account of a daring raid into enemy territory.
Select a strike mission in the Gulf against veteran opponents.  Keep
selecting new missions until you get the one where you attack the bridge
followed by the oil platform.  Arm your plane with four Mavericks, three Mk
82 slicks, four AIM-9Ms and three AMRAAMs.  Once you're airborne fly
towards your primary target (usually a bridge) at 500ft. the first thing
you'll encounter is a missile boat.  Once you're within 20k flick the bomb
bay open and fire a Maverick, then shut the bay doors again.  This should
make your return slightly easier.
The next target to look for on radar is the SAM site which lies between you
and your primary target.  Lock onto the radar itself - wipe it out like you
did with the boat.  Keeping your altitude at 500ft fly to your next
waypoint, the bridge and destroy it with a Maverick.
Now set your HUD for air to air and do some damage.  Fly around 2000ft and
use your track cams to pick out targets.  Use the AMRAAMs first followed by
Sidewinders.  If you find the opposition reluctant to fight it might be
because they can't see you.  In that case open your bay doors and switch on
the ECM jammers.  This should give you a decent radar profile.  When you
run out of missiles switch to cannons, but save 500 rounds.  When your fuel
drops to 4,500 it's time to leave.
Head towards your second from last waypoint, the oil rig, and take it out
with a Maverick.  Tankers float around the platform.  They're very easily
damaged by your cannons.  When you're down to 1,500 gallons of gas take off
for home.
The easiest way to land your plane  is  to  first fly over the runway, then
loop round and use your track cam  to  line  the runway up with your plane.
Finally use the ILS on the final approach and you're home free.
In general it's best to  plan  missions  to  take  out enemy SAM sites with
ALARM or Mavericks to  give  you  more  time  to  engage  other targets and
planes, as well as allowing a safe ride home.
Though the F-117A is not designed for air-to-air combat you're going to end
up engaging a few wings of interceptors.  So heres a guide to some of the
enemy planes.

F4-E:  Old fashioned avionics means it has difficulty engaging a Stealth
Fighter; it shouldn't pose too many problems.

MiG-29:  Designed to out-fly the American F-15.  Highly manoeuverable,
superb pilot vision.  Weaker avionics than the F-117A.  Best tactics are to
approach with maximum stealth, then sweep up and strike.  Be prepared to
use jammers as it comes with a sophisticated infra red detector and look
down-shoot down radar.

MiG-31:  A tarted up MiG-25, flies like a supersonic brick.  Just turn,
look out of the window and watch him fly past.  There's not much he can do,
and he'll now be giving off a good infra red signal for your Sidewinders to
get a lock-on.

SU 24: Soviet copy of the F111.  A very capable air craft.  Fast at low
altidude, though it's not designed for air-to-air combat, so it doesn't
want to mix it up.  2000ft.  It's more inclined to go after ground targets.
Utilise your stealth ability to catch it off guard.

SU 27:  Air superiority fighter. Designed to outfit everything it meets. It
can out match you in every respect.  The best the Soviets can produce.
Armed with look down-shoot down radar, so it might spot you at low
altitude, but it was designed before the Soviets knew they would be looking
for an aircraft with multi-faceted design covered in RAM.  If any plane can
avoid detection by the SU 27, you're sitting in it.

End.
