                        GAME HINTS (ADVENTURE & ARCADE)

Typed in by VIKING of DV8. Edited by PARASITE.


UNINVITED : To get past the dogs you must say "Instantum Illuminaris
Abraxas" Also to get a key, Operate knife on left chair in the lounge.
To pass the chapel, say "Specan Heaford Abraxas" to the statue head.

GUILD OF THE THIEVES : To kill the spider, drop the open jar of jam (With
Flies in it) and the spider will crawl into it and die.

THE GOLDEN PATH : To get to the Island, you must feed the starving man
some food. You will be given a pole with which you can use the raft to
get across the island.

EMERALD ISLE : The axe is needed to make a canoe which is required for the
many trips to the Desert Isle.

LESURE SUIT LARRY II : The buck is in the corner of the shed where you start
off. On the ship, to get the bikini, walk into the water and type
"dive" and quickly guide Larry down to get the bikini Also to leave the ship,
go to the captains office at the top of the ship and stand near the
console and type press button (This will lower the life boat so you can
escape of this Treturous ship!)

DEJA VU : To open Mr. Brody's and Ace Harding's door you must first go
to the penthouse suite at the Siegel Appts, examine the photo on the
mantle, it gives an address (You will have to shoot the lock off to get
inside). Examine the tables contents, amongst them is an unmarked key -
This will open the door (MS : You would think it would be easier to
shoot the lock off Mr. Brody's Door!!!!)

AZTEC TOMB : Steer the boat towards the cliffs, and when the cliffs are on
the screen, type jump overboard.

PILGRIM : In ravine, cut steps in the cliff using the shovel.

WOLFMAN : Look around twice when you climb up in the museum.

FRANKENSTEIN : Lift the Creaky floorboard

FISH : Find a dry route after casting

MANHUNTER : Use the minimum succesful Kewpie Doll sequence that you
allready know!

DALEY THOMPSONS OLYMPIC CHALLENGE : Get yourself into the high score
table then type in "HINGSEN-J" (Use the "-" on the numeric keypad).
Press the DEL key and and the legend "DEMO!!!" should appear on the top
of the screen. Now type "-J" And press the DEL key again and "MEGA-DEMO"
should appear. Now press a function key and you've got 3 Bottles of
Lucozade to boot!

ARKANOID II : When the title screen appears, type ROBOCOPPETER, which
enables the continue mode.

FALCON : For a full belt of cannon rounds and eight AIM 9L missiles press
Control, left Alternate, and X. Also, as landing is near impossible, you can
simply go to "end of mission" to end the game and get your medals and
points.

MARBLE MADNESS : Stay where you are when you start to get a wonderful
suprise!

SUPER HANGON : This cheat is mega! - It gives your bike machine guns! to
activate the cheat mode, you must beat the highest score on the current
continent high score table. Africa is fairly easy. Enter 750J on the
highscore table and it should change to "....". The cheat mode is now
enabled. To get down into the cheat mode screen, hold down Control, left
Alternate, Z and T while the attract screen changes from credits screen to
the options screen. The cheat mode appears when you let go of the T and you
will now be asked to enter coefficiants for the road turn effect using the
numeric keypad. Once the cheat mode has been enabled, it cannot be
disenabled, so it is worth remembering that the initial settings are 60 for
outer turn and 45 for inner. The bike gains a machine gun when the cheat
mode is activated. It is used by pressing the Amiga key. The stream of
bullets can be used to destroy other bikes and roadside obstacles except
checkpoints and goal gates.

KINGS QUEST III : To hide your possesions from the wizard, put them under
your bed.

SHADOWS OF MORDER : Build the raft in the right place or else you won't be
able to move it!

ASYLUM :
HYPOCHONDRIAC - Give her the stethescope and kill her. Then retrieve the
stethescope.
ELECTRICIAN - Chop him with the axe and get the fuses.
LONG HALLWAY WITH DOORS - Lock all the doors to get the candle and the
matches.
GUARD - Go to plastic surgery with the drugs, then get the camera and the
matches.
ELECTRO SHOCK ROOM - Scramble the fuse box then enter. Get the battery and
insert the fuse in the fusebox - you need a lit candle to see.
LONG HALLWAY - Get the bean bag and drop it at one end. Get the rocket belt
and wear it. Go to the other end and press the button. Get the wire.
PHONE ROOM - Wear the uniform. Chop the phone, then the reciever with the
axe. Get the coins and the magnet.
PHYSICIST - Enter carrying the magnet. Get the generator.
PSYCHIATRIST - Press the button on the generator. Get his smock and wear it.
EXTERMINATOR - Tiptoe outside. Enter and tie him with the rope. Wear the rat
suit.
McCOY - Look like Star Trek character and get the transporter.
BANANA PEEL - Slip on it twice and get the book of law. Examine the peel to
get the caterpillar
GURU - Give him the book and get the scroll.
ENTYMOLOGIST - Give him the caterpillar.
PICNICER - Open the jar and get the lunch.
EMMIT - Give him the lunch.
MASTER MYSTIC - Press the button on the transporter, drop the rat suit, and
enter. Get his ring, go outside, get his suit and wear it.
TO ESCAPE - Look under the bed in your room and get the picture. Go to the
surgeon and show it to him. Then go to the exit - and leave!

IKARI WARRIORS : Type "Freeride" on the high score table for unlimited
lives and ammunition.

THUNDERBLADE : Type CRASH at the helicopter screen and press the HELP key
to skip a stage.

TEST DRIVE : Keep the fire button pressed while going around the corners.

JINXTER :
 1 - You don't need to pass the bull
 2 - Cut the wire after holding it first
 3 - The rusty key will open Xam's door
 4 - Get a job in the bakery
 5 - Freeze stool to obtain it
 6 - You kneed to wear gloves before you take braclet
 7 - The plastic key can be melted to fit a mailbox
 8 - Listen to the magpie to get some usefull information
 9 - The can of worms are useful for dirt mounds
10- The sock and the bung are useful for canoe holes

WIZBALL : Pause the game with the space bar and type "RAINBOW" resume the
game and then press the space bar again. now hit "C" to fill the pot with
the current colour.

ARKANOID I : Press the space bar to pause the game and type "DSIMAGIC".
press the space bar again to catch the pill falling from the centre of the
screen. Once you have done this you can call up the laser turret, extra
paddles etc. by typing the appropriate letter on the keyboard. "F" will
take you to the final screen and the confrontation with DOH.

HYBRIS : Once the game has loaded and prompts you to "Press fire to begin"
press the space bar instead. You should now be able to change the speed
of enemy bullets, transformations etc.. with the mouse and keyboard.

CARRIER COMMAND : First pause the game with the mouse button. Then type
"The best is yet to be" (Including the spaces) followed by the "+" key.
you should now have invincible mantas.

AFTERBURNER : Pause the game and type "Together in electric dreams" - Once
the "S" is typed you should hear a digitised "WOW!" now press "G" for
more missiles and the "<" and ">" keys to skip stages.

SWORD OF SODAN : Start a game using any character, then die quickly.
enter your name on the high score table, and press the fire button to
start play again. Your new character will now have infinate lives.

EMPIRE STRIKES BACK : Press and hold the "HELP" key while entering
"XIFARGROTKEV" to enter cheat mode. Press return to cancel the cheats.

THE HOBBIT : The magic door can be opened by wearing the Magic Ring. To
get across the Black River, throw rope across, then pull rope. To escape
from the cell, go to the Butler's Room, and when a barrel is thrown, jump
onto it. To escape from the other cell, get one of your mates to carry you
through the window. To escape from the bulbous eyes, wait twice before
moving.

ZORK I : The only person who can open the egg is the thief. Repeat yourself
(E..O) to get the platinum bar. Cyclops problems? Try type ULYSSES. The
machine makes diamonds coal needed.

ZORK II : You can read the cakes. Basket + Canvas = Hot air balloon
(Burn paper in receptacle). To get out of the vault, go north!!
The maze of rooms is a baseball pitch! Hold the bat and run the bases!
Guess who the collar is for - Woof Woof!

ZORK III : Shear determionation and strength will make you eventually beat
the shadowy figure! Give some bread to the old bloke. Hello sailor!!
(When a ship floats by). Scared of the dark. Try the grue repellent just
in case.

HITCHHIKERS GUIDE TO THE GALAXY : The engine room is O.K. Tell the guards
to drop their guns. If you have tea, and no tea, that makes you quite
intelligent. Drink three pints of beer. Lack of sensed? sniff sniff.
Look at Arthur at the party. To get the plotter, first get the Babel fish
then listen carefully and appreciatively to the captains poetry.

LESIURE SUIT LARRY : Forget the washing line. Remove protective clothing
and make yourself scarce through the window!

LESIURE SUIT LARRY 2 : Take the ticket to the studios and cheat!
