                             HAMMERFIST

Typed in by PARASITE of LSD.


INTRODUCTION
When two hearts beat as one - especially two robotic hearts - you know
you're in trouble.  Hammerfist and Metalisis were two ordinary fun-loving
cyberdroids, until someone decided to cut back on expenditure.
The logic went like this: two bodys, many similar bits, remove the
duplicate items, save lots of credits.  But the cutbacks went too far, the
results of which mean that only one or the other of the robots can exist at
any instance, instant transmutation from one body to the other being the
only way to flip between personalities.
This co-existance, verging on non-existance realy got up Hammerfist's and
Metalisis's shared nose. As you can imagine, they are both mad as hell -
although, obviously, only one of them can be mad as hell at any given time.
Trapped in the mechanical world that made them, Hammerfist and Metalisis
are after blood and bolts.  And only you can guide them towards success
along their path of destruction.

MOVEMENT
Plug the joystick into port two.
There are numerous moves to be learnt.  For fighting moves hold down the
joystick fire button and push the joystick in the required direction of
attack.  For directional moves simply push the joystick in the direction in
which you actually want to go.

HAMMERFIST'S MOVES:
Punch forward - Fire plus left of right.
Punch up      - Fire plus up.
Punch down    - Fire plus down.
Piston fist   - Continue pushing left or right while punching.

METALISIS'S MOVES:
Flic-flac while stationary - Fire plus up.
Flic-flac while running    - Fire.
High Flic-flac             - Continue pressing up while performing a Flic-
                             flac.
Kick                       - Fire plus left or right.

KEYBOARD CONTROLS
Change characters          - Push up on the joystick.
Pushing down               - Duck.
Turn into the screen       - Press fire three times, or hit the space-bar.
Head-butt                  - Hold fire button and pull down on the joystick.
Open doors                 - Hold fire button and pull down on the joystick.
Step into an inset doorway - Hold down fire and pushing up.
Select a weapon            - Duck and press fire twice.

F1 - No weapon.
F2 - Piston fist.
F3 - Laser.
F6 - Music
F7 - Sound effects
F8 - Sound off

Escape - Pause.
Delete - Restart.

End.
