                                HYBRIS

Typed in by GARFIELD. Edited by PARASITE.


TO START:  After the program has loaded, the title screen will appear.
Choose your role as J.P. Maverick or as K. Lovett by using the mouse or
joystick to select the appropriate option on the screen.  Hitting the space
bar brings up the Change Options mode, which allows you to change the
parameters controlling the level of difficulty of play.  To continue, just
hit the spacebar again.  The
program will automatically switch to the demo mode, displaying the scoring
system and the high score table.  Press the joystick or mouse button to
begin play.

DURING GAME PLAY:
<RETURN>         Expands the ship into a new power configuration.
                 (NOTE:  You may perform the same manuever by moving
                 the joystick in a tight fast circle without pressing
                 fire--or, by pressing the right mouse button.

<SPACEBAR>       Smartbombs

P                Pause

P & ESC          Exit the game

IMPORTANT:
Your objective is to seek the missing colony. Fighting your way through
incredibly challenging levels.  The following pages contain top secret,
strategical hints to make your task somewhat easier to accomplish. We
suggest that you first try the game, and then refer to the information
in the manual.

INTERSTELLAR MEMORANDUM CLASSIFICATION: PRIORITY ONE
To:  Command Center Number 163, Planet Earth
From:  Space Station -- HYBRIS
DATE:  Time zone 18003426442, 2461 A.D.
RE:  Investigation of the earth colony on Planet Jurica

MESSAGE:
We have begun our scheduled orbit of Planet Jurica.  All attempts at
communication with the earth colony have yielded no results.  Our long-
range sensors detect many strange formations on the planet's surface.  We
suspect that hostile alien forces have invaded the planet, and we have
prepared our scouting ships to investigate.  Two pilots have been chosen
for the mission: J.P. Lovett and K. Lovett.  Both are extremely well
qualified and have explicit instructions to remain on the planet until they
find the colony -- whatever the cost.  Due to great distance between Jurica
and Eart, we will continue to forward transcripts of the communication
between HYBRIS and the pilots.

TOP SECRET: Interstellar transmittance record space station: HYBRIS

LOCATION:  Planet Jurica
STATUS:  Red alert - All available crew to fighter stations
DATE:  2461 A.D., 14:04.56
CLASSIFICATION:  Combat communication with scouting ship, wave 1

HYBRIS:  Space station hybris to scouting ship. You have cleared the space
port successfully and should be .... RED ALERT! RED ALERT!  Hostile alien
forces directly in front of you.

SS:  Affirmative.  The aliens are coming in fast and furious.  Some seem to
be stronger than others.  As long as i keep moving, I am able to destroy
most of them.  The ones on the planet surface seem especially deadly.  I'm
travelling over some kind of desert, but there's obviously plenty of life
down there.

HYBRIS:  Communications report received from another ship.  Acquire extra
strength by shooting and collecting power cubes.  Each cube has different
expanded features.

SS:  Affirmative.  I have upgraded the ship's capacity.  I can access the
extra power by moving my control without firing.  I'm hit!  I'm hit!

HYBRIS:  Submit damage report.

SS:  Interesting.  The strength of their attack depends on where the
missles strike the ship.

HYBRIS:  Remember, you have the capacity to carry only three smartbombs.
Better save them for use in tight spots.

SS:  I think i'm in one now.....
