                                MURDER

Typed in by PARASITE of LSD. Thanx to MAVERICK for the originals.


SCENARIO
You play the role of an ameteur sleuth who is on the scene of the crime,
and as Scotland yard will not arrive for two hours, you decide to attempt
to solve the murder yourself. If the case is unsolved after these two
hours, Scotland yard will arrive and take over.

CONTROL SUMMARY
Up/Down/Left/Right      Mouse
Action button           Left mouse button
Mode button             Right mouse button

SELECTING A MURDER
It is possible to select from nearly three million murders to solve by
changing the information displayed on the newspaper, to do this move the
pencil cursor over the parimeter you wish to change and press the action
button. You can change the following things as much as you wish...

1. The date of the newspaper
2. The name of the house
3. The type of the house
4. The difficulty level (it is recommended you select novice until you
become familiar with the logic system!)

The name of your sleuth is generated from his appearance which can be
changed by pressing the action button on his eyes, nose, mouth etc.

To start the game press the mode button.

CONTROLS PAGE
The action button selects an option whilst the mode button quits, drops
back to the main game screen and selects between movement and examine.

MAIN SCREEN
To move the sleuth click the action button on the mouse pointer arrows.

Clicking the mode button selects between movement and the examine
magnifying glass.

Search surfaces with the magnifying glass, click the action button when you
spot something. If something is there it will appear in a frame, together
with it's name. Some objects are potential weapons. You may now check it
for fingerprints by clicking on the examine objects for fingerprints icon
(all icons described later). Some may have prints, some will not. This
could be because the object is too porous, or because the prints are
smudged, or no-one has touched it.

When you click on a person with the magnifying glass pointer, their
portrait will appear in the small window, with their name and any object
they may be carrying.
If you wish to question a person, select them with the action button, then
on the question mark icon, you are now in questioning mode.

QUESTION ICON DESCRIPTIONS
JOGGER WITH AN 'A' - Person A
JOGGER WITH A  'B' - Person B
A ROOM - Room/Location
ROPE, KNIFE, BOTTLE - Object
MAN & WOMAN WITH HEART - Relationship
ERASER WITH 'CLEAR' - Erase question
PENCIL & PAPER - Make notes
SPEECH BUBBLE - Ask question
TWO ARROWS - Scroll arrows

ASKING A QUESTION
When you enter questioning mode, the above icons appear at the top of the
screen, these are used to build up a question to ask the character
concerned.
To ask a question, click on an icon. A list will now appear showing which
people/places/objects are avaliable to be subjects for your question (if
the list has more than 14, click on the scroll arrows to revel the rest).
Click on one.

E.G. If you wish to ask about a particular person, select the 'person a'
icon, a list of characters will now appear, select the person of interest.
If you wish to ask a more specific question, select a second icon to be
taken into account. E.G. If you wish to find out if a person used a
particular object, select the person using the 'person a' icon then the
object using the 'object' icon.
To ask about the feelings between two people, use the relationship icon,
select the first person as before, then select the 'person b' icon, and
choose the second character. Now click in the 'relationship' icon to
display any jealously, love, hate etc. Remember you are looking for motive.

When the question has been assembled, click on the 'ask question icon'. The
question will be answered by the character, make a note of any information
given by selecting the 'make notes' icon. This will automatically be cross-
referanced with any other clues you may have gathered. The more complete
the notes, the more chance you have of solving the murder.

The 'clear' icon allows you to reconstruct or remove a question.

Leave theis section by pressing the mode button.

GENERAL ICON DESCRIPTIONS
BOOK -  Notebook
MAP - Map
FINGERPRINT - Take fingerprints
FINGERPRINT WITH QUESTION MARK - Compare fingerprints
GUN WITH CLOTH - Wipe object of prints
KNIFE WITH LABEl 'A' - Take exibit
HANDCUFFS - Arrest suspect

WHAT THE ICONS MEAN:

NOTEBOOK ICON
This enters the notebook, in here you will find the time, location and
discoverer of the body. Additional information must be entered by you from
the questioning section. This information will be cross referanced.
Information in one section will be mentioned in another. Use the turn page
pointer to look through the information. Use the mode button to leave this
section.

MAP ICON
Click on this to see a plan of the house. Your location is marked with a
'x'. Click on a roon to see what it is called. To view the floors, click on
the level. Use the mode button to leave this section.

TAKE FINGERPRINTS
This enables you to examine an object for fingerprints, which appear in
the small window. Position the cursor to place the print from the enlarged
box into one of the smaller storage cells.

COMPARE FINGERPRINTS
This enables you to compare prints. Select A or B to place a print by
clicking on the appropriate one, then copy a print from the storage cells
by clicking on it.

WIPE OBJECT OF PRINTS
To clean off prints so that you can discover a suspects prints, select the
wipe object icon with an object in the small window. This removes any
prints on it.

TAKE EXIBIT ICON
This allows you to take an object as an exibit for prosecution. If you are
already carrying something, it will be swapped for the object in the small
window.

ARREST SUSPECT ICON
Only arrest someone if you have the murder weapon. You will arrest the
person in the small window, and charge them with murder. Confirm your
selection.
If you are succesful, the newspaper will tell of your heroic exploits.
To achieve a succesful prosecution you need to have corectly identified the
murder weapon as well as the murderer.

HINTS ON PLAY
Question people generaly to begin with, and then once you have the idea,
follow it up with more detailed questions.
The time a suspect was in a location is important, as is a knoledge of the
house layout. Even though they have a significant motive, some suspects
will not have been able to reach the scene of the crime in time.
People will not incriminate themselvs in a crime.
Take prints from weapons to eliminate them from your enquiry. Wipe an
object and put it down, and wait for somebody to pick it up to get their
prints.
Make notes of your own on paper, as well as in the notebook.
The murder is totaly logical, no psychopaths here. It can be solved!

The end.
