                                PARADROID 90

Typed in by PARASITE of LSD.


In a Galaxy far, far away.....

THE HORSEHEAD NEBULA, 2390 AD.
The Leviathan spacefleet moved silently through the inky void of deep
space. The cruise through the seven galaxies had lasted for eons, and it
was only now, after centuries or ceaseless wandering, that the fleet was
turning, finally, on its way back home to Earth.
That was the idea anyway.
The effects of the radioactive asteroid field that the fleet had
unexpectedly passed through as it made its exit from hyperspace were
already being felt on the flagship 'Vigilant'. Deep within the ships
groaning holds, the ancient Battle Droids, who had lain dormant for
centuries, were beginning to stir once again.
The crew had no idea, of coarse. Recently awoken from their cryogenic sleep
to navigate the ship to its final approach home, they had not needed to
check on their cargo, and were blissfully unaware that within hours they
would all be dead.
It wasn't until the sentry on security duty down in the cargo hold had
heard the shots from inside bay five that anyone realised that anything was
wrong. When he turned the corner to investigate he found himself looking
down the barrel of an 821 Security Droids Battle Cannon. And that was it.
The wide-awake army of Droids started to file through the blasted-out bay
doors, seperating and making their way down the darkened corridoors towards
the elevetors that would take them up to the populated areas of the ship.
The area where the 'enemy' were ignorantly carrying out their duties. At
last, their time had come......

HERE'S WHERE YOU COME IN
The Deep Space Transit Fleet returning to Earth from the other side of the
galaxy has become immobilised. Its cargo, hundreds of deadly Battle Droids
designed for interstellar wars have activated themselvs and gone haywire,
along with the crews robotic servant, Messanger and Maintenance Droids.
Confused by magnetic interference caused by a radioactive storm in space,
the Droids now see all humans as a threat and, executing their final battle
orders, have massacred the ship's crews. Only a handfull of crew members
survived. Since any large-scale assault against the robots which now
control the ships would be futile, you will instead go in alone, in control
of a revolutionary new robot known as the Influance Device. It may be slow,
weak nad clumsy, but it does have one invaluable skill - it can seize
control of any Droid it wishes.

LOADING
Plug a joystick into port two, insert the disk, and turn on, its as simple
as that!

GAMEPLAY
The ship you have been given the task of clearing rogue robots from is DEJA
VUJA. It comproses six individual deks, to be cleared in any order. When
play begins, your 001 Influance Device is beamed aboard the ship at a
random Transmat point. The influance device is moved in eight directions
with the joystick. To fire your laser, press the firebutton while moving in
any of the eight directions.

KNOW YOUR ENEMY
Anything that moves on board the ship is your enemy. It must die. This can
be achieved in a number of ways - you can shoot it until it blows up, ram
it to death (Which costs you energy), or transfer to it.
Enemy droids renge from menial Servant Droids, to the roughest and toughest
Battle nad Security Droids. They all look differant, anabeling easy
identification, and each has a three-figure serial number.

ON THE MOVE
Doors are automatic - just move close to one and it opens, closing once you
have passed through it. To get from deck to deck, stand on the elevator
point and hold down the firebutton. while in 'lift mode', move the joystick
up or down to select the deck and press fore to go there.

THE TRANSFER GAME
To seize control of another Droid, hold down the firebutton while
stationary. A spark appears to indicate that you are indeed in Transfer
Mode. Now all you have to do is ram into another droid and the battle for
control of his circuits begins. After selecting the best side, you have
about 20 seconds to light as many coloured squares to your colour as
possible. This is done by firing Pulsers along the connecting wires. With
the time up, the robot with the most squares lit to his colour wins. If you
win, the droid is yours to command. If you get rejected , its back to the
drawing board, and a deadlock means you play again.
The Transfer game option can be turned off.

TERMINALS
Information about the ship, decks and the robots on board can be gleaned
from the ever-friendly computer treminals scattered about the ship. They
like you loads and get turned on when you get near. Hold down the
firebutton when you get in range of a terminal to access it. From here you
can access the deckplans, see a plan view of the ship (showing the decks
still needing to be cleared), and have a wander through the droid library.
But remember, you can only look at Droids with a lower security clearance
than your own.

End.
