                               PHOTON STORM

Typed in by PARASITE of LSD.


OBJECTIVES
Kill all enemies in an attack wave, thereby opening up your stargate and
enabling you to warp through hyperspace.

Collect as many Plutonium Pods as possible, which can be used as extra
shielding whilst negotiating the Hyperspace Tunnel between levels and to
prevent the enemy from collecting Plutonium pods (which are used to build
and activate the enemy Battlestar.) If the Battlestar is activated, you
must defeat it in mortal combat to end the wave and open the Stargate.

Stay alive. Get further into the attack levels, and amass a truly awesome
score.

HOW TO PLAY
Once the game has loaded, the title page ius displayed. From here you may
press the left mouse button to commence a one-player game, or the right
mouse button for two-players. In two-player mode, players compete for the
highest score, with play alternating between player one and two each time a
ship is destroyed.

If the game is not started, it will display the demonstration screens.
Press the Left mouse button to return to the title screen and start a new
game.

CONTROLING YOUR SHIP
Your ship will appear  on  the  screen,  followed  by  the  enemies and the
Stargate (The Stargate is a large  glowing triangular object). Your ship is
in the centre of the screen, and  remains there throughout the game. As you
fly around, the gameworld moves relative to the ship.The ship is contrilled
by a combination of mouse and keyboard commands.

FIRING
The left mouse button is the fire button. Holding this down results in a
triple-beam of laser fire, and there's no reason to stop until everything
is destroyed!

THRUST
The right mouse button controls the thrust. If this is not pressed, your
ship drifts through space at whatever angle it happens to be turned to.
Pressing thrust causes two things to happen; your ship accelerates, and it
also turns to face the aiming point. So, by a combination of moving the
aiming point and using the thrust button, you can turn the ship to go
wherever you want, and control the speed. With a little practice this will
become second nature.

BOOST
There is a keyboadr boost button - the left shift key. Holding this down
doubles the speed of the ship. however using this uses your avaliable boost
energy, which is shown by one of the two linear gauges in the score area
(the one with the flame by it), and when this reaches zero, you can boost
no longer. However while you are not boosting, the energy recharges, but it
must reach beyond a certain threshold (about 25% of the guage) before it
will become availible.

SMART BOMBS
Pressing the control key <CTRL> releases a Smart Bomb (this destroys all
enemies and missiles on the screen). You begin the game with four of these,
and are displayed as purple spheres in the box to the left of the central
Scanner in the score area (to the right if you're player two). Extra Smart
Bombs can be obtained during play by blasting Starflakes; they yield a
bonus pellet which, if collected, will give either a Smart Bomb, some
invincibility, or an extra life.

SINGLE BEAM
This is for the confident player. It reduces the triple beam laser to a
single beam one. Anything shot with this gives double points. To obtain the
single beam, just hold down the alternative <ALT> key while firing.

THE SCANNER
This is the centrally-located box in the score area. It displays objects in
the gameworld which are not immediatly visible on your screen, as different
coloured blips. As the gameworld is large, it features automatic resolution
switching. If you are a long way from any other objects, the scanner zooms
out until it picks up an object. As you approach an object the scanner
steps down a resolution to give you a more localised view of the immediate
region around the ship. The Scanner Zoom Factor is displayed underneath the
scanner; X8 is maximum zoom out (this covers the whole gameworld); X1 is
the area immediately local to your ship.

HEAD-UP DISPLAY
This consists simply of rudimentary geometric objects superimposed upon the
field of play: a green triangle represents the location of the Stargate;
the red circle represents the enimy Battlestar. the display represents a
scaled-down version of the real gameworld with respect to your ship. So,
flying towards the green trianglerepresenting the stargate would eventually
bring you to the actual stargate.
When an enemy ship steals a Plutonium pod, to return it to its Battlestar,
it will appear as a white cross on the head-up display. Destroying such a
laden enemy ship yields a bonus, and the stolen plutonium is released for
you to collect.
Should the enemy Battlestar recieve too much Plutonium, it will activate.
When this happens all the enemies in the level except for the Battlestar
dissappear, and the Battlestar comes to get you, unleashing hordes of
reeking Ferrets in your general direction. To complete the level and open
the Stargate, you then have to destroy this monstrosity, a task involving
lots of hits, and some nifty use of boost.

YOUR ENEMIES
You will meet various types of enemy, all with one aim, to splatter you to
atoms. Some attempt to collide with your ship, others lay mines or fire
bullets, some release streams of fireballs, and many do more than one of
these things at the same time. On the later levels you will meet the most
insidious of all, the green orb-like Abductors, which seek out and capture
floating Plutonium pellets and take them back to the Battlestar.

STARFLAKES
Shooting one of the Starflake enemies releases a pellet, which will may be
blue with a little 'W' on it. Collect the pellet before it decays and
you'll be rewarded with the purple blobby lasers for about 30 seconds.
If it is a pink orb, which is the most common, they work as Smart Bombs,
destroying everything on the screen, and automatically collecting you any
plutonium, and you also get five seconds of shield. If it is a green orb,
it will give you about 30 seconds of shield, letting you fight without
risk.

PLUTONIUM
This is represented by rotating radioactivity-symbols. You must collect
this and take it back to the Stargate. You can collect more then one piece,
and they all stream out behind your ship, in fact, the more you carry, the
more points you get. Just collect as much as you dare, and take them back
to the Starport, you will be rewarded with bonus points. The more pellets
you collect the better, as you'll find out when you finish a level.

FINISHING A LEVEL
This occurs when all enemies on a level are killed. The message 'THE GATE
IS OPEN - THE WAY IS CLEAR' will appear on the head-up display. Flying
through leads to a tunnel, you should reach the bonuses and the Warp to the
next level. The first few are very easy, but they get harder, avoid flying
outside the walls. You can sustain a number of hits detonated by the number
of green pixels in the oscillating chain superimposed on the bottom of the
display, each collision will result in the loss of one pixel. If you
collide too many times, you explode, and although you don't lose a life,
you will restart at the beginning of the level, and lose your bonus points.

STARGATE
If you enter the stargate when you are not carrying any plutonium, and when
it is not yet open, the following occurs;

If there is a Plutonium pellet somewhere in the gameworld, the Gate
teleports you to the vicinity.
If no abdoction is occuring, the Stargate tries to warp you onto a free-
floating Plutonium pellet.
If there are no pellets, the stargate tries to put you near a Starflake.
If there are no Starflakes, it puts you near anything that is still alive.
If there is nothing at all around, the Stargate warps you down the galaxy a
bit.

PAUSE
Press the right Shift key during play to go into a fountain simulation. You
can press the mouse buttons to alter the gravity and pallette and move the
'fountainhead' with the mouse. You can now press 'Q' to abort the game.
If you prefer something more traditional, hold down the thrust button
whilst pressing the right Shift key to freeze the display.
Pressing <SPACE> restats the game.

End.
