                          TYPHOON THOMPSON HINTS

Typed in by PARASITE of LSD.


Get used to tjhe hovercrafts altitude and movement.  Pushing forward
on the mouse coupled with thrust is best for reaching to speed, while
pulling back together with thrust puts the craft in reverse, and
forces it into the air (handy for avoiding nasty flyers).  Pulling the
craft back allows you to fire further into the distance (sometimes
helpful, sometimes a hinderance).  Its best to stick to drifting
around without the thrusters, its easy to thrust into danger or
accidentally dive under the water if your not careful.
Shoot one island at a time, and lure away the flyers that emerge from
it.  Once the sprites are loose in the water, they can be very quick
at returning to the island.  The further away you are when you hit
their flyer, the better your chances of getting them all.  If one
flyer gets back, then the sprite counter resets, and you'll have to
start again.
Try not to let flyers get behind you, especially dangerous ones like
the Zapper.  If things get too much, dive underwater, and lob Freeze
bombs from down below.
Don't go mad with the Laser.  One shot is enough to destroy a flyer
and any further shots tend to hit the Sea Sprites.  Even worse is a
stray shot that hits other fliers, throwing yet more Sae Sprites into
the water.  As the Sea Sprites are identical in looks, there's no way
of telling from which island they came, so you can't go around
stopping them returning to their islands.
Never forget how intelligant the fliers are.  The nastier breeds, like
the Zapper and the Spitter will home in on you if Sea Sprites are in
the water.  Bubblers will dish out more bubbles as you draw near.

WEAPONS

LASER CANNON:  Essential for everything.

SCATTER BOMBS:  Best used to get rid of any bubbles surrounding your
target; also good for splitting up groups of flyers.

SPRITE MAGNETS:  On killing a flyer, throw a few sprite magnets
around; even if the Sprites change, they'll still hang around the
magnets before they expire.

FREEZE BOMBS:  If the Zapper, Whomper and friends get too close, hit
the freeze bomb to halt them.  Firing at them while frozen has the
same effect as the laser cannon.

THE MISSIONS

BRING US THE DAGGER:  An easy level, introducing you to the differant
fliers in turn.  One Sprite controls each flier, so collecting the
seventh Sprite, and thus the dagger shouldn't be too difficult.

BRING US THE HAMMER:  Fairly easy, but 14 sprites in total, with two
Fliers from each island, with one sprite at each of the controls.
Make sure your not caught between two kill-on-contact flyers and you
should be ok.  Kill any Zappers, Suckers, and Forcers first.

BRING US THE BALLOON:  This time 28 sprites too be picked up, two
fliers from each island, with two sprites in each.  No advance in
difficulty since th last level, just more Sprites to collect.

BRING US THE PACIFIER:  You must collect 42 Sprites, three flyesr per
island, with two sprites in each.  From now on its best to draw them
away from the islands and hit them one at a time.

BRING US THE BABY:  Collect 63 sprites, Three flyers with three
Sprites.  Similar to the last level, just more Sprites.

Now sit back and watch the animated end sequence!

THE FLYERS

BUMPER:  A nuisance, he just bashes you around.  The only real problem
is if he pushes you into a Sucker, zapper, or anything more lethal
(this is a rare event).  Make sure the flyers are spaced out before
taking him on.

WHOMPER:  Dangerous.  He moves very fast, and is difficult to pin down
with long-range shots.  He's worse close up, as he homes in on you
with frightening accuracy.  Get him at long range.

FORCER:  Get two of these together nad you'll have problens trying to
fly in a straight line.  Hit him with a freeze bomb from below, and
fire a close range shot at him.

SUCKER:  The oppersite effect of the forcer.  Fire from long range,
and if he gets too close, thrust away (never backwards), dive for
cover, use scatter/freeze bombs - just do anything!  You have a few
seconds to get away, but that is all.

BUBBLER:  This can multiply your problems.  Use the scatter bomb to
clear the saeways of bubbles.

SPITTER:  Use the long range shot facility to pick them off.  If they
fire, thrust backwards to the left or right immediatly.  Spitters fire
at your last targeted position, so move to remove them from harms way.

ZAPPER:  One touch loses you a life and a hovercraft, and you need
them later on!  as he's low in the water you may miss him a few times.
launch a freeze bomb to stop him, and fire a long range shot to finish
him off.  On no account let him near.

End.
