
        Send your save games (the file called "savegame") to me at james@widdy.demon.co.uk
        and a list of the top 5 pets will be put up on www.widdy.demon.co.uk/wbpet.html

	Hi, and thanks for taking time to download this.  I hope you enjoy this as it took me
	BLOODY AGES to make.  This is the version of Workbench Pet that Amiga Format didn't
	get (because they don't want any more pet games, apparently.  I'll probably still 
	sent it them anyway).  This is to their disadvantage as it is THE BEST VERSION.
	
	STUFF THAT'S IN THIS VERSION THAT WASN'T IN
	THE WB PET ON THE AMIGA FORMAT CD:-
	
	-new and more pets
	-more secret pets ;))
	-the pet now does the full monty :)
	-more and better games to play with the pet (although that isn't saying much judging by
	 the game in the previous version)
	-more sound and sampled music
	-more cheats
	-a snazzier interface
	-save/load
	-other improvements that I can't be bothered typing, but THEY ARE THERE.
	
	This isn't the previous WB Pet with added bits, I started this FROM SCRATCH (and the code
	turned out longer than it should be).
	
	I NEED FEEDBACK FROM YOU!!!!!!
	
	If you like this game then pleasepleasepleasepleaseplease send me an email.  You've no idea
	how much I like hearing from people who've played this ;) 
	
	If I get a large/largish response, It'll encourage me to learn how to make a TCP battle game
	where your pet can fight it out against another pet over the internet.  I'll put updates on
	the aminet whenever I fix a bug or improve the game somehow. 
	
	email me at:  james@widdy.demon.co.uk  or find me as the nick "widdy" in #amigames
	            on ircnet.demon.co.uk (or a similar server)
	
	MAKE YOUR OWN PET!
	
	The Pet files are called: newmiggy,mouse,disk,drive,tower,speaker,cd32,simm
	
	If you want to make your own pet, copy one of the pet files from the  directory somewhere 
	safe, and load the filename "blank" into a paint package.  Fill in the frames with the 
	appropriate pictures and save the pet over the name of the pet file  you copied
	elsewhere.  Alternatively, you could send your home made pet ( I don't care if it's crap, 
	I'll put it in as a secret pet) and I'll put it in an update for uploading to the aminet.
	
	BUGS
	
	I am a learning coder still so inevitably there are bugs:-
	-the hunger meter and evolution meter aren't saved for some reason (the rest of the pet is
	 though)
	-the full monty music sometimes goes a teensy bit weird.  I think this is a fault in blitz
	 because I don't think it likes playing mods with long samples.
	-the shapes sometimes flicker.  It's not intrusive though.
	
	Thanks for reading this far.  Hope you like the game.  If not, sorry.  I'll try and do better
	with my next game.
	
	James Chapman 