
FixBoot 0.0, Copyrighe © 1987 by Jerry Masker, Getzville, N. Y.

This program may be copied and used freely as long as the original copyright
notice in the program is left intact.  The author makes no warranties of any
kind about this program - USE AT YOUR OWN RISK!

Certain early programs for the Amiga were not designed with expanded memory
in mind.  Some of them auto-boot as a workbench disk, thereby precluding the
use of the NoFastMem program supplied with the Amiga 2000.  This program has
been implemented to solve that problem.  Some of the programs this program
effectively fixes include Arcticfox and Skyfox.  It will also work with
Deluxe Print, although the NoFastMem program could be placed on the disk
and executed manually.

This program reads in the bootblock of the requested disk.  It then copies
the existing program boot code down in the bootblock and inserts a small
segment of code which, upon booting the disk, eats all the available
expansion memory.  A new blotblock checksum is calculated and stored in the
bootblock, and the bootblock is written back to disk.

To use this program, setup using the following CLI commands:

   copy FixBoot ram:
   cd ram:

Then, REMOVE ALL DISKS FROM THE SYSTEM in case you make a mistake.  Insert
the disk to be repaired, with write enabled, in any of the drives and type:

   FixBoot <drive number>

Notes:

   1. Use a COPY of the disk to be fixed in case something goes wrong! You
      may have to use one of the copy programs such as Marauder if the
      original is copy protected.

   2. Error reporting by this program is almost nonexistent.  For example,
      if you forget to write enable the disk, the program probably will not
      report it.

   3. The program assumes that there is space available in the bootblock for
      the "memory gobbler" to be inserted.  I have not seen any programs
      where the bootblock contained so much code that this segment could
      not be inserted.  HOWEVER - if you execute this program several times,
      on the same disk, you will be inserting multiple copies of the "memory
      gobbler", and will eventually overflow the bootblock.  Extra "memory
      gobbler" segments typically won't hurt anything unless this condition
      arises; but the old saying "if a little's good, a lot must be better"
      certainly doesn't apply here!

   4. The VIP PROFESSIONAL spreadsheet program disk does not have a problem
      with extra memory; you must use it in drive df0: on the A2000.  Its
      problem is that there isn't a drive df1: on some machines, and the
      code searching for drives leaves a lot to be desired.  Anyway,
      FixBoot won't help - it only hurts by reducing the size of the
      spreadsheets the program can handle.  (Also, with VIP, don't forget
      to change stack to 40000 if you have extra memory installed.)

   5. See also my program HackerFix to repair Hacker I disks.  FixBoot
      is not needed for Hacker I.

