SEWER SOFTWARE presents a DR J doc.....

                         DOCS TO CRAZY CARS II

At the end of the game, you can put your name beside your score.  
You do this by choosing the letters of your name one by one with 
the joystick.  You move the cursor with the joystick.  Press the 
FIRE button to store each individual letter.  When you have 
finished entering your name, move the cursor to the END display 
and press the FIRE button again.  Your new score is now stored on 
the disk.
If you wish to play right away, without listening to the 
presentation music just keep the FIRE button pressed as soon as 
the music starts.


-ATARI ST:

The F1 key changes the frequency of your screen(50 or 60 Hz).
The F2 key displays the road map
The F3 key connects (or disconnects) the radar detector 
The F4 key selects the speed unity (Miles/Kilometers)
The F5 key allows you to stop the game if desired.
The F6 key displays the sterring-wheel
The F7 key selects the control mode(keyboard/joystick/or mouse)
The F10 key stops or starts the game(pause)
The Ferrari is controlled by the joystick, the keyboard or the 
mouse.

Commands will be interpreted as follows:

UP        Up
DOWN      Down
LEFT      Left
RIGHT     Right
SPACE BAR Change the speed of the gearbox


At the end of the game, you can put your name beside your score.  
do this by choosing the letters of your name one by one 
positioning yourself with the arrow keys on the keyboard or the 
joystick and storing each letter with the space bar or the FIRE 
button on the joystick.  When you have finished entering your 
name; move the cursor to the END display and press the space bar 
or the FIRE button again. Your new score is now stored on the 
disk.


THE STORY:

This time you're at the wheel of the fabulous Ferrari F40 and in a 
face against time in a bid to smash a stolen car racket- the only 
problem is the guys involved in the racket are corrupt policemen!
As you go tearing through four states of America in search of the 
corrupt police, you will also have problems with the honest road 
cops who don't appreciate the sight of a Ferrari F40 crossing 
their state at 200 miles per hour........
But, it ain't that easy..........
You must plan your route carefully from the maps of each state 
which are displayed on screen and which show the actual American 
freeways that you will travel on - Be careful, the shortest routes 
aren't always the easiest as the sight and sound of a blue 
flashing light will soon make you realise.
Your Ferrari is furnished with the latest radar which will enable 
you to detect police road blocks which may have been set up to 
catch you, therefore keep an eye on the Freeway junctions you may 
be forced to change your route!

YOUR MISSION:

At the beginning of the game, your starting position and the 
location you have to reach will be shown on the map.  You will 
have to consult the map repeatedly in order to know the direction 
you are supposed to take.
At each crossroad, your on board computer will indicate the 
direction and number of the road you can take.
The game represents the actual roads of the 4 states of the USA in 
which you can travel.
If you notice a road which would connect with one you're on, you 
can cut across fields, but watch out for telegraph poles and 
milestones!
as soon as you start your engine, the countdown will start.
If it reaches zero, your Ferrari will explode!


-YOUR FERRARI DASHBOARD

Your F40, property of the FBI intervention department, has been 
specially adapted for your mission... Its dashboard represents the 
following elements:

On the left side at the top is the RPM counter.
Speed Unit indicator(KM/H or MP/H) is below that 
Speedometer is below that
Gear shift indicator is on the right of the speedometer(high or 
low)
Your score is in the middle box on the left side 
Your bonus counter is to the right of that

Your timer/direction indicator;tells you which direction to take 
when the road splits, and the road number(on the map) this is on 
the bottom of the right hand box

The small box above and all the way to the right indicates the 
distance to the closest radar(or police car)
The box to the left of that indicates the location of radar(or 
police car)
The box to the left of that indicates the working condition of 
the radar detector. 
The box to the left of that indicates the direction the radar or 
police car is going 
The box to the left of that connects/disconnects the radar 
detector



SCORE AND BONUS

Your score will increase with the distance covered.  At the end of 
each stage, a bonus will be added to your score.
At the beginning of the 1st chase, your bonus counter will be set 
to 20000 points (40000 at the 2nd chase, 60000 at the 3rd one...)
Each chase bonus the time allowed corresponds to the ideal route 
as estimated by your on board computer.  The counter goes down 
rapidly with the distance covered.  Each time the Ferrari succeeds 
in breaking through a police cordon, 10000 points are added to 
your bonus.  Your bonus will be earned if you arrive at your 
destination before the timer reaches zero.


                                                                       
                    




        



