
 DR.J
U.S.A.

                               MIAMI VICE

INTRODUCTION
     You are about to re-live all of the excitement of the television
series, so grab your Ray-bans and forget your socks, Crockett and Tubbs
are taking you on a crime-fighting spree, Miami style!
     You control Crockett and Tubbs as they embark on eight thrilling
adventures.  From the moment Lieutenant Castillo delivers your realistic
assignment, to the ferocious final assault, you'll face non-stop action
in your race to bring to justice some of the cruelest and coolest
criminals that ever threatened this tropical paradise.
     Combining all of the excitement of car chases, boat chases,
airplane chases, and blazing shoot-outs, Miami Vice brings a new level
of action to your computer screen.

OPERATION
     After you press P to play the game, Castillo's office will appear.
The Lieutenant is seated behind his desk at police headquarters.  He
will deliver your assignment to you as it comes across the teletype.
Press the space bar to go on to your first assignment in the warehouse.

SCREEN LAYOUT
     On all eight levels, some vital information is displayed across the
bottom of the screen.  The small men on the left-hand side represent the
number of lives you have remaining, including your current one.  You
start the game with five lives.  Next to the men, three small shields
are displayed.  When you begin the game these shields are blank (see
Completing all eight levels for information on how shields are
obtained). Your current score is shown on the rightmost side of the
screen. What is displayed in the center of the bottom of the screen is
dependent upon the specific level.  See the sections on the individual
levels for details.

PLAYING THE GAME
     There are two types of games in Miami Vice, two character games
and vehicle games.  In the two character games (e.g. warehouse, dock
Stiltsville, etc,) you must control both Crockett and Tubbs.  The name of
the currently active character is shown at the bottom of the screen.  To
switch between characters, press the spacebar.
     Each of the eight games operates slightly differently.  The following
section describes each game in more detail along with providing hints
for each level.
     For each level that you complete, you are awarded one hundred
points. You can also earn bonuses for speedy completion of any level.

JOYSTICK OPERATION
Two character games
UP        stand up if in a kneeling position
          climb up if in front of a ladder
DOWN      kneel down and aim gun
          climb down if above a ladder
LEFT      move to the left
RIGHT     move to the right
UP/LEFT   aim gun to the left
UP/RIGHT  aim gun to the right
FIRE      fire gun
SPACE     switch between Crockett and Tubbs

Vehicle games
UP        accelerate car or boat
          decrease altitude of airplane
DOWN      decelerate car or boat
          increase altitude of airplane
LEFT      move left
RIGHT     move right
FIRE      fir gun (not available in boat chase)

COMPLETING ALL EIGHT LEVELS
     If you really have what it takes to be a vice cop and survive all
eight levels of the game, you will earn a Medal of Service.  You will
be presented your medal by Lieutenant Castillo.  Don't bask in glory
for too long, because before you know it, you are back on the streets
battling crime.  You will start again at level one.  However, the action
has picked up.  Bullets fly faster, criminals move faster and bombs
become harder to avoid.
     You can be awarded up to three medals, each more valuable than the
previous, providing 32 levels of excitement.  Your medals will be
displayed on the bottom of the screen on all levels.

THE GAME
     You have been sent to an abandoned warehouse that is suspected to be
used by drug smugglers.  Waiting for you when you arrive is a lookout
and a ferocious guard dog.  Your goal is to have Crockett and Tubbs exit
through the top floor of the warehouse.  Be careful, several unexpected
surprises await you.  Crockett and Tubbs can move up or down on the
ladders or in the elevators.  Once they both reach the top level, bombs
will begin flying in from the left-hand side.  You will need to shoot
these bombs as you inch closer and closer to the exit.  Both characters
must get to the left of the hook hanging on the chain.

PLAY TIPS
     *Shoot the bombs coming in from the side before they can get near
      you and explode.
     *You can lure the dog by walking past him on the level above or
      below.
     *Keep Crockett and Tubbs close together as you maneuver them
      towards the exit.
     *Bombs on the ground floor will eventually stop coming.  Stay on
      this level and shoot them until they stop.

LEVEL TWO:  CAR CHASE
     After leaving the warehouse, you get a call to go immediately to
the docks. On your way, you run across a wanted criminal racing through
the streets of Miami in his sports car.  While chasing the car, you must
shoot at it to disable it.  A passenger in the suspects car returns your
fire.  In the middle of the bottom of the screen are three colored
bars. The top (gray) bar represents damage to the suspects car from gun
fire.  The middle (white) bar represents the number of bullets fired by
the suspects that have struck your car.  The lower (red) bar represents
damage to your car from collisions with obstacles.  If the white or red
bar reaches the right hand side, you must start over on this level.

PLAY TIPS
     *Avoid oil slicks, pedestrians, and other obstacles.
     *Watch out for shots fired from the suspects car.
     *Disable suspects car before you reach your destination.
     *A head-on collision with another car will cost you one life.

LEVEL THREE:  THE DOCK
     By the time you arrive at the dock, the suspects have already sped
away in their speed boat.  You must get to your boat to pursue them
across the bay.  That won't be very easy, they have left someone behind
with explosives to slow you down.  Crockett and Tubbs must make their
way across the bottom of the screen to the exit on the right-hand side.
Standing in their way are two openings in the dock which they can't jump
over.

PLAY TIPS
     *There are various levers and switches you may need to use.  Some
      you will need to push or pull, others you may have to shoot.
     *Be careful or the suspect may permanently block your exit.

LEVEL FOUR:  BOAT CHASE
     When you finally reach your powerful speed boat, you catch a
glimpse of the suspects racing off across Biscayne Bay.  This chase will
not be easy.  The waters are full of swimmers, divers, channel  markers,
small islands and much more.  Use all of your skill as a boat driver to
dart through the congested water in pursuit of the suspects' boat.  The
red bar graph in the middle of the bottom of the screen indicates the
damage sustained by your boat.  Damage will occur from collision with
any of the multitude of obstacles in your path.  As you progress, your
boat gets closer and closer to the top of the screen, giving you less time
to react to upcoming hazards.

PLAY TIPS
     *Avoid all of the obstacles in the water.
     *Drive as fast as possible to increase your speedy arrest bonus.

LEVEL FIVE:  STILTSVILLE
     It seems the suspects were headed for Stiltsville, a group of
vacation homes built on stilts in the middle of Biscayne Bay.  They are
using one of the homes as a hideout.  Tied up to this house is a
seaplane. They will stop short of nothing to keep you from reaching the
plane before them.  You must negotiate your way from the houses on the
left to the house on the right and exit on the bottom right.  Beware of
the many people left behind to stop you.

PLAY TIPS
     *Watch out for bombs coming from above and from the side.
     *Keep both Crockett and Tubbs moving as much as possible.
     *Use the wire tied between the two houses to cross over.  Push the
      joystick up and pull and hold the trigger to slide across the wire.

LEVEL SIX:  PLANE CHASE
     You manage to survive Stiltsville, but two of the suspects got away
in the seaplane.  You are picked up by a police airplane so that you can
follow the suspects.  The skies over Miami are dangerous.  You are
confronted by numerous drug planes and weather balloons.  You can either
fly above, below or round these obstacles, or shoot them out of the sky.
          
PLAY TIPS
     *You can not fly above the highest obstacles or below the lowest
      ones.
     *The more objects you shoot, the more points you get.

LEVEL SEVEN:  PARACHUTE
     You pursue the suspects plane over the Everglades.  The plane
circles and lands at a small private airstrip near a large walled in
complex of buildings.  You decide that the only way to continue your
pursuit is to parachute out of your airplane.  Shortly after leaping
from the plane, you are confronted with a barrage of anti-aircraft fire
As you see shots nearing, you must steer your chute the other way.  It
takes several minutes to reach the ground, so you must remain alert.
The gray bar graph in the middle of the bottom of the screen shows
how much damage your parachute has sustained.  If the graph reaches the
righthand side, your chute will fail.

PLAY TIPS
     *As a shot approaches, steer away from the direction in which the
      shot is originating.
     *Shots will only damage your parachute if they are in your field
      of view when they explode.

LEVEL EIGHT:  FINAL ASSAULT
     Upon landing beside the complex, you realize that it is a large
base used by many suspected criminals.  The lookouts are now on full
alert after seeing you drop from the police airplane.  It is up to you
to make your way up the outside wall of the complex and lead a raid
through the main gates.  It won't be so easy though, lookouts are
waiting for you with explosives.  If you survive this level, you will be
presented with a Medal of Service.

PLAY TIPS
     *Keep both Crockett and Tubbs moving as much as possible.
     *Crockett and Tubbs must both reach the main gate to complete
      this level.



