Short : Alien Breed II AGA HD-Installer
Type : game/patch

Alien Breed II AGA From Team 17 HD Installer. Written in August 1995 by JOTD.

Some people complain about the fact that Team 17 games, although excellent, are NEVER
HD installable because it's easier to crack. That's a stupid policy because the game
will be cracked anyway by expert persons. The other reason is that Amiga users do not
own hard disks and with trackloading it is faster than even FFS. But most of the 1200
users have got a HD now so stop it please !

To install Alien Breed II AGA on your HD, first copy the contents of the directory AB2HD
in the target directory, then go into this directory and double-click the Install-AB2
icon. You'll be prompted to insert the four AB2 disks and the contents of those
disks will be copied on your HD.

To play Alien Breed II, then, double-click the AB2 icon, or type 'ahd' in the shell

The game will load.

Note : you must have at least 4MB of fast RAM, and it is not guaranteed it will work
if your memory is fragmented. Please do many tries but I ensure it works (not like
the other installer for this game that I never managed to use). Anyway, the executable
file ahd uses sytem-friendly disks reads and memory allocation, so does not the game !
That's why it can fuck sometimes. But when this happens, it fucks in the first seconds
and if the "Accessing Disk" message appears, you can be sure that the game will work OK.
Generally, if the game doesn't boot, you may not have enough chipmem, so boot with no
startup-sequence, and run the game.
You can also replace the iconx script I wrote in AB2 by :

copy s:startup-sequence s:startup-sequence.backup	; backup your original startup-sequence
copy s:alienbreedstartup s:startup-sequence		; copy the startup for ABII
wait 5							; wait for the disks to finish
reboot							; reboot the system (or do it yourself !)

and alienbreedstartup could contain :

copy s:startup-sequence.backup s:startup-sequence	; restore your original startup-sequence
ahd

This installer was written and tested on a A1200 68030/50 16MB RAM.

It works with the cracked version by N.O.M.A.D.

Many Thanx to :

- N.O.M.A.D for his crack of AB2 without which I couldn't write this installer
(I ain't got any ICE or Action Replay for A1200, so I do it by hand, and his
crack helped me to understand some routines), and for TUDE, The Ultimate
Degrader/Enhancer, which is not perfect but is of great help with some
badly programmed games.

- Frank Wille for PhxAss 4.18, a really cool assembler

- Martin Apel for ADis V1.3

- Nicola Salmoria for HexEd, a really cool Hex editor.

- Team 17 for their great games (I bought many original versions from them :
  Body Blows, Project X Special Edition, Assassin, QWAK, Overdrive, Alien Breed
  Special Edition).

Have fun with this cool game (even cooler on HD !)

JOTD'95
