			    AmigaMUD V1.1


Aug 7, 1997; Edmonton, Alberta, CANADA.


This is version 1.1 of AmigaMUD. It replaces versions 0.5, 0.6, 0.7,
0.9 and 1.0, all of which have been uploaded to Aminet. Please feel
free to distribute this release as widely as possible. Thanks to
Tak Tang and Ben Cass for early testing of this release!

Major changes with this release: much more general "MUD" client, able
to run on the Workbench as well as in custom screens. Able to support
multiple resolutions and varying colour depths. New "fixed point" type
added to the programming language. Both involved considerable changes
to the starter scenario. I'm hoping that "appearance-only" work like
all of this client stuff is now pretty much done, and I can get back
to work on more interesting stuff, like a much better scenario! Oh
yes, this release now comes with full internet support.

Thanks to the generosity of the folks at work, there is now a server
for AmigaMUD on the internet. It is at "mud.myrias.com" using the
default ports for binary and text connections, and also at the normal
"telnet" port for a text connection. Please don't pound on that server
too much - it is only an Amiga 3000 (25 MHz 68030).

At least one user, Nils-Arne Dahlberg, has solved all of the quests in
the standard scenario, including the fairly difficult "Heart" quest.
Any others out there managed this?

See the request for pictures and icons at the end of this file. I have
received several images from Michiel van den Donker, but there is
always room for more.

Maarten Engels has provided two new sets of icons intended for Workbench
screens with more than 4 colours. They are in the "icons" drawer.
Thanks Mati!

The system has been tested fairly extensively on a V2.04 A3000 and a
V3.1 A4000T. I run Enforcer continuously on those systems. Earlier
testing of the client was also done on a V1.3 A1000. The client has
also run on A500's, A1200's and a CDTV (with disk and keyboard).

This release is freely distributable - send it anywhere you like. You
don't have to pay me anything, but I'm much more receptive to requests
and suggestions that come with "donations", which can be sent to:

	Chris Gray
	#604 - 10545 Saskatchewan Drive
	Edmonton, AB
	CANADA	T6E 6C6

Please do NOT send physical letters to me without donations if you
want an answer. As many people who sent me letters about Draco and
Amiga Empire will attest, I simply never get around to answering such
letters. If the letter comes with, say, $50.00, however, I'll probably
answer it right away, and perhaps even send you the latest version, if
there is a new one, and you ask for it. I prefer to use electronic
distribution means, however, since then I have fewer versions to keep
track of.

I am much better at answering electronic mail, which can be sent to:

	cg@ami-cg.GraySage.Edmonton.AB.CA

I also read several Amiga and most MUD newsgroups. I suggest newsgroup
comp.sys.amiga.games as the main discussion group, with perhaps some
general MUD-related discussions in rec.games.mud.misc . A lot of the
discussion on the first release was in newsgroup comp.sys.amiga.datacomm.


This Release

I have redone the way the release is done. Now it is all in one large
archive instead of several smaller ones. This means that it will be
difficult to handle if you don't have a hard drive. Things have also
been re-arranged at the suggestion of some users. Everything will now
come out in one directory and its subdirectories, so you won't have to
go looking to find all of the pieces. I haven't managed to do an
Installer script, so you will still have to setup an assign manually -
you need to have "AmigaMUD:" pointing to where you unpacked the
archive, and you need to install the new "mud.library", which can be
done by double-clicking on the "CopyLib" icon.

This release contains the full AmigaMUD system: client, server,
scenario sources, all documentation, etc.


Quick Docs

See "Doc/Agents.txt" for information on setting up a server to run
over the internet. See "Doc/MUD.txt" for information on using the
client program, including how to use it to play an AmigaMUD over the
internet. In brief, to play on my server, do the following:

    - get your TCP/IP stack up and running. I've tested with AmiTCP/IP
	and know that Miami works too. Others I don't know about.
    - double-click on "CopyLib" to copy mud.library to your LIBS:
    - double-click on "MakeAssign" to temporarily make the needed
	assign
    - open directory "Progs"
    - double-click on the "MUD" icon to start playing in the default
	graphics mode. (Turn on your speakers - there is some sound!)

When you are prompted for a character name, you should enter the name
you wish to use for your MUD character. This name should not contain
any spaces or punctuation marks. On my server, there may be quite a
few characters, so if on your first connection attempt it immediately
asks you to enter a password for the character, it means that someone
else has already used that character name, and you will have to think
up a new one.


What I Want From You

I want to hear from you about AmigaMUD. What can I do to make it
better? Do you like it? Tell me what you like and what you don't like.
Please don't send me large logs or binaries unless you get my
permission, however, since I pay for my email. As above, the email
address to send stuff to is:

    cg@ami-cg.GraySage.Edmonton.AB.CA

This is a fully registered domain name, so you should be able to email
to it from just about anywhere on the internet. I reply to all email
that seems to need a reply, so if you don't hear back from me, try
again, giving a different email path to yourself. I've had several of
my letters to users bounce back to me with bad addresses, invalid user
IDs, etc. Unfortunately, my current ISP sometimes bounces email to me,
as well. If you get that, just keep trying over a day or two.

As you can readily tell, my talents as a graphics artist are close to
non-existant. I have not attempted to draw many pictures for use in
the scenario. The scenario, however, has been programmed to make use
of several of them. I welcome submissions for these pictures. See file
"Doc/Images.txt" for a description of what I would like.
