CHAOS STRIKES BACK:

        1.  Find a dragon, then cast "MON ZO GOR SAR" and press 'ESC' to
            pause the game.
        2.  Hold down 'ALT' and type "LORD LIBRASULUS SMITHES THEE DOWN".
            Unpause the game and slay the dragon.  He should leave a
            firestaff for you and you should be invincible.

        How to kill any dragon:

            1.  Prepare all your players with "MON IR VEN" spells (mega
                poison cloud).

            2.  Use the green freeze life box (on the dragon)

            3.  Cast the spells, and then double up on each player (ie.
                each player casts 2 spells for a total of 8).

            4.  Wait... dinner will be served soon.

        Using the Vorpal Blade:

            If you don't have both Vorpal Blades, you can increase the
            number of hits per time by passing the weapon back and forth
            between the two attacking players.  Attack with one player and
            pass blade to another player and have this player attack.  Now
            pass the blade back and attack.  Continue until the monster is
            dead.

        Undocumented Spells:

            GOR IR KU   - Detects Monsters
            GOR IR ROS  - Detects fake walls and "invisible" (actually hard
                          to see) pits
            GOR IR DAIN - Detects "magic" on screen?
            ZO IR NETA  - Anchors the map at the point of casting so that as
                          you move around, the map view stays at the
                          anchored position.

        How to kill dragons:
            1) Prepare all your players with MON IR VEN spells (mega poison
               cloud)

            2) Use the green freeze life box (on the dragon)

            3) Cast the spells, and then double up on each player
               (ie. each player casts 2 spells for a total of 8)

            4) Wait... dinner will be served soon.

        Fireballs:

            Everything is affected by fireballs, the only exceptions are
            slime, black flames, and the thing that pops up from the floor.
