Short:			Text adventure with GUI
Author: 		anbjorn.myren at gmail.com (Anbjorn Myren)
Uploader:  		anbjorn.myren at gmail.com (Anbjorn Myren)
Type:			game/wb
Architechture:	m68k-amigaos 

Abandoned House version 1.0

There are two different executables for game.
Low-end version is without images and should run from Workbench 1.3 and up.
The game itself is the same in both versions.

The enhanced version requirements:
- 68020 CPU
- 2 MB ram (minimum 1MB free ram before starting the game)
- Kickstart 2.0, 3.0+ recommended.
- minimum 640x512, 256 colour workbench
- A GFX card recommended.
 (It can be run without GFX, but will then need FPU and supported datatypes)

Low-end version requirements:
- Workbench 1.3+
- If on WB1.3, gadtools.library for 1.3 is requred
 (found on aminet, gt34_1.lha. Extract the library to libs and rename it to gadtools.library)
- 1 MB ram
- 640x512 resolution. For 1.3, open prefs/preferences and enable interlaced mode.
- In WB1.3, the game needs to be started from a shell command, or else it may crash. 


Installation:
Unpack the archive to any location and run it. 
Just make sure the images and save folder are copied along to the same folder as the executable. 

How to play:
After reading the background story there will be a GUI that should be pretty much self explaining.
There are buttons for every possible action, and some message strings in the main window.
Here is a short explaining of the buttons,
Information : Will pop up a window with some useful information about the current location of your character.
North, South, East, West: As you migh expect, these are navigation buttons. These buttons are initially diabled (grayed out).
Toggle: There are one toggle button to the left of the inventory string, and another to the left of the object string.
Use: Pressing this will try to use the current inventory item og the selected object.
Drop: To drop items from your inventory.
Examine: Will pop up a window with information about the selected object.
Pickup: Will try to pick up selected object to the inventory. 

The menu:
From the main window one can right click to access the title menu.
Save and Load will do just that, save the progress of the current game. 
Game can only be saved when the player is outdoors. Note that saving the game will overwrite previous saves.