@database README
@wordwrap
@node main "README"

This is the Demo Version of Gorky 17, containing both versions for 68k and WarpOS.

Please note that Gorky17 requires CybergraphX or Picasso 96 to be installed.

AGA/HAM-Mode is not supported.

Sound is supported through AHI, using the magicsoundsystem (Note we recommend AHI 4.18, 6.0 might not work).

For Movie Replay mpega.library is needed for the Audio, which is included in the Installer. 

The game runs perfectly on a PiStorm system or on a Vampire V4.

If you disable the music (possible during installation time) it "somewhat" runs on a 100 MHz 060, the official
minimum specs are PiStorm or Vampire V4 though. Gorky17 does not run on the Vampire V2, v2 has not enough RAM.

Information on the Movie and Music Replay:

Movies

- Movies are by default set to be replayed using a custom version of Riva, on WarpOS to AMP2 for "real WarpOS", for MorphOS systems to MPlayer. 
  If you want to use a different player you can use the env variable env:g17/g17_extplayer, for example setting it to

"c:frogger.040 FULLSCREEN %s"

The syntax of the call to the Video Player can be done as you need it, it just needs the %s
in there to notify where the filename of the Video file will be.

With env:g17/g17_disableintros 

you can disable the intro videos at gamestart. Other videos ingame will still come (they are disabled if this file
exists, regardless of the content of the file).

Disabling Music on 68060 systems (or other systems):

Note this should only be needed on 68060 systems. And you can let the installer handle it, no need to set the ENV variables
manually.

makedir env:g17
echo "0" >env:g17/g17_disablemusic

You can enable it again by deleting env:g17/g17_disablemusic and restarting the game. The Env Variable is already set
correctly for your system during installation.

Additionally there is env:g17/g17_streamingthreshold. If this is set to 0 the game always preloads music instead of streaming it.
This might speedup the game on 68060 systems, but loading times will be longer, and it will require more RAM.
The installer will already set this variable correctly for your system.

@endnode
