
                               || CRIBBAGE ||


                                  //v1.0 //

Cribbage is one of the oldest card games and is primarily a game for two. It
can, however, be played by three or four.

There are three distinct forms of the game, known respectively as Five-Card,
Six-Card and Seven-Card Cribbage. They differ in the number of cards dealt to
each player. These instructions begin with the Five-Card version which, from
the point of view of tactical interest, is considered by many to be the best
game of the three, in spite of its simplicity. The "*" symbol is displayed
where slightly different rules apply to the Six- and Seven-Card versions, and
explanations may be found near the end of these instructions.

The objective of all forms of Cribbage is to reach a stated number of points
before one's opponent does; at Five-Card Cribbage the game is 61 up *. For
scoring purposes a special board with holes and pegs is ordinarily used. This
makes it possible to see at a glance that one's opponent has scored correctly,
and shows throughout the game the relative positions of the two players.

The players cut for deal and whoever cuts the lower card is the dealer. (For
this purpose the Ace ranks as low). The non-dealer is immediately awarded
three points; these points are called "Three for Last" * and are intended to
compensate the non-dealer for the slight disadvantage which would otherwise
accrue. The dealer deals five cards face down to each player.

Each player looks at his hand and discards two of his five cards; these
discards are set aside and form what is called the Crib. Since the score in
the Crib always accrues to the dealer the principle of discarding is different
for the two players. The non-dealer will throw cards which, so far as he can
judge, are of no advantage to his opponent, while, at the same time, he must
try to retain cards which are of advantage to himself. The dealer, on the
other hand, while also considering the scoring possibilities of his own hand,
will try to secure a useful Crib.

The cards for the Crib having been set aside, the non-dealer cuts the
remainder of the pack to the dealer. The card revealed becomes what is known
as the "Start" and plays an important role later in the game. If the "Start"
happens to be a Jack the dealer is immediately awarded 2 points, and these
are known as "Two For His Heels".

Now begins "The Play" of the cards. Each player will have three cards in his
hand and, beginning with the non-dealer, each in turn lays a card face up on
the table endeavouring to score the maximum number of points.

In the following notes the pip value of a Court card is 10.

//POINTS SCORED IN PLAY//

1 Pairs
  A player scores a Pair (2 points) when he plays a card of the same
  denomination as that last played by his opponent. For example, suppose the
  non-dealer leads off with a Queen; if the dealer puts down a second Queen he
  scores 2 points.

2 Pairs Royal
  If a third card of the same denomination is played in succession, whoever
  has played it scores a Pairs Royal (6 points). The reason why a Pairs Royal
  carries 6 points is that, from the three cards of the same denomination,
  three pairs can be formed.

3 Double Pairs Royal
  If a fourth card of the same denomination is played in succession, whoever
  has played it scores a Double Pairs Royal (12 points). From four cards of
  the same denomination six pairs can be formed; hence the 12 points.

4 Runs or Sequences
  If three cards played in succession can be so arranged to form a sequence of
  three, the player of the third of these cards is awarded 3 points for his
  Run. Thus, if the first card played is a 3, the second is a 4, and the third
  a 5, 3 points are scored when the last-named card is played. But equally
  these points are scored if the cards are played in any other order, ie
  5,4,3; 5,3,4; 4,5,3 and so on. Runs are not only scored for a sequence of
  three cards, but for a sequence of four, five or six. As before, points are
  scorable at the conclusion of the Play of any number of cards which can be
  arranged in sequence. Hence, it is not necessary for a Run of four to have
  been preceded by a Run of three.

5 Fifteen
  If two or more cards are so played that their pip count equals fifteen, the
  player who plays the last of them scores 2 points. Thus, if the non-dealer
  leads off with an 8, the dealer can play a 7, making fifteen, and scoring 2.
  If the non-dealer first plays a 6, and the dealer a 5, the non-dealer can
  now play a 4, making a Fifteen and a Run of three, and scoring 5 points
  altogether.

6 Thirty-one
  The pip total of the cards played may not exceed thirty-one. A player
  playing a card which makes this exact total scores 2 points. Thus, if the
  first three cards are 10,9,6, another 6 may now be played for which he
  scores 4 points: 2 for the Thirty-one and 2 for a Pair. Once Thirty-one has
  been reached, no further cards are played. *

7 One for Last
  A player who cannot play another card without exceeding the permitted total
  of thirty-one says "Go". If his opponent can also play no further cards he
  also says "Go". If, however, his opponent can play another card, he does so,
  scoring "One for Last", unless the play of that card makes the total thirty-
  one, when he scores 2 as explained above.

The Play of the hand is now over and the players proceed to what is called
"The Show".

//THE SHOW//

The non-dealer "shows" his hand first; then the dealer. Lastly the dealer
turns up the four cards which have been thrown into his Crib, and that, too,
is "shown", its score accruing to the dealer.

Scoring in the Show is on much the same lines as scoring in Play. For the
purposes of the Show, the "Start" card plays its part in all three scores. It
becomes, that is, an element in both hands and in the Crib.

Suppose, for example, that the non-dealer holds K,5,5, that the dealer holds
7,6,6, that there is a Q,4,3,3 in the Crib, and that the "Start" card is
another 5. For scoring purposes, the hands now are:

    Non-dealer -> K,5,5,5     Dealer -> 7,6,6,5     The Crib -> Q,5,4,3,3

In this example the non-dealer's cards, worth only 6 points in themselves, are
now worth 14. Dealer's cards, worth only 2, are now worth 8. The Crib cards,
worth only 2, are now worth 12.

1 Fifteens //(Court cards count as 10 for this purpose).//
  As in Play, any combination, whether of two or more cards, which totals
  Fifteen counts 2 points. The same card can be counted in more than one
  Fifteen, provided that the other components of the Fifteen are different.
  Thus, for 10,5,5 and 9,6,6 "Fifteen four" is scored. In each of these
  combinations, one card scores twice.

2 Pairs
  As in Play, any two cards of the same denomination rank as a Pair and score
  2. Thus, a hand consisting of 9,9,6,6 scores 12, for there is "Fifteen
  eight" here (each 9 combined with each 6) and also two Pairs.

3 Pairs Royal
  As in Play, any three cards of the same denomination rank as a Pairs Royal
  and scores 6 points. Thus, a hand containing 9,3,3,3 scores 12 because there
  are also three Fifteens here.

4 Double Pairs Royal
  As in Play, any four cards of the same denomination rank as a Double Pairs
  Royal and scores 12.

5 Runs
  Any three or more cards which can be arranged in sequence count as a Run of
  three, four, or five. Moreover, as with Fifteens and Pairs, the same card
  can be included in two or three Runs. Thus, if in a hand one has 3,3,4,5,
  one scores 6 for two Runs of three (plus, of course, 2 for Fifteen and 2
  more for a Pair).

6 Flushes
  Here is a scoring feature which does not count in the Play. If the three
  cards in the hand are all of the same suit, 3 is scored for a Flush. If the
  "Start" card is is of the same suit as these three cards, 4 is scored for a
  Flush of Four. In the Crib, however, there is no score for four cards of a
  suit; the Flush is only scorable where five of a suit appear.

7 His Nob
  "One for His Nob" is scored where hand or Crib contains a Jack of the same
  suit as that of the "Start" card.

//The highest possible single score (29) in Five-Card Cribbage is obtainable//
//in a Crib containing J,5,5,5 with the "Start" card another 5 the same suit//
//as the Jack.//


                          __6- AND 7-CARD CRIBBAGE__

These are the differences between the Six- and Seven-Card Cribbage and the
Five-Card game.

1 At Five-Card Cribbage the game is 61 up; at Six-Card Cribbage the game is
  121 up; at Seven-Card cribbage the game is 181 up. In other words, Six-Card
  Cribbage is twice around the board, and Seven-Card Cribbage is three times
  around the board.

2 At Five-Card Cribbage the non-dealer is awarded 3 points before the game
  begins. At Six- and Seven-Card Cribbage these points are// not //scored.

3 At Five-Card Cribbage the Play ceases as soon as 31 (or the highest score
  below 31) has been reached. At Six- or Seven-Card Cribbage, however, all
  cards are played out. Ie, when a player scores for 31 or for "Go", the other
  player leads off again with one of his remaining cards. Thus, at Seven-Card
  Cribbage (where each player has five cards in his hand) it is possible for
  "Go" to be scored three times and for one player still to have a card in his
  hand and to score "One for Last" with that.



                        __CRIBBAGE FOR FOUR PLAYERS__

Cribbage makes an excellent game for four. The players play as partners,
seated as in Whist, ie the North-South players are partners against East-West.

The only substantial difference between the two-handed and the four-handed
games is that, in the latter, each player throws one card only into the Crib.
Hence, to secure the same playing situations as in the two-handed game, one
card less must be dealt to each player originally - ie four cards only for
what is ordinarily a five-card Cribbage; five cards for six-card Cribbage; and
six cards for seven-card Cribbage.



                                 __GENERAL__

The above instructions are, of course, intended for use with a real deck of
cards. This computer version automates many of the actions and handles all the
scoring. Much skill is still required to take full advantage of opportunities.

Press the "Esc" key to terminate the game at any time.
Press the "Help" key to display these rules at any time.
