1. INTRODUCTION
France '44 is intended to help explore the battle for France in
1944.  Players are encouraged to adjust the transport and supply
restrictions if they feel that one side has a decided advantage. Simply
adding or subtracting the number of truck available to the allies can
change the whole balance of the game.  Extra truck counters are provided in
one of the unused forcepools, and trucks may also be flipped over to change
nationality.

The victory conditions are designed to encourage the players to
do better than their real-life counterparts did.  If the game is
played historically, it should end in a draw.  Throughout the
rules, designers comments will be indicated by being enclosed in
brackets []


1. MAPBOARD

   The Mapboard shows the theater of operations for the 1944-45
Battle for France from the Normandy beaches to Rhine River. It
includes most of France, Belgium, Holland, Luxembourg and part of
Germany.  Terrain features are as follows:

1) SEA HEX- Any blue hex.

2) LAND HEX-Any non-sea hex.

3) RIVERS-Solid blue lines running between land hexes.

4) NAVIGABLE RIVER - Solid blue running through the center of
land hexes.

5) CITY HEX- Any hex completely covered by grey and black
mottling

6) TOWN HEX- Any hex with a small area of grey and black mottling
in the center.

7) MAJOR PORT - Any city with an anchor symbol

8) MINOR PORT - Any town with an anchor symbol

9) FORTIFIED HEX-Any hex with blue hashmarks. 

10) MOUNTAIN HEX-Any brown hex.

11) FOREST HEX-Any green hex.

12) NEUTRAL COUNTRIES- Gray areas (Switzerland, Italy and Spain).

13) BEACH HEX-Any hex containing yellow/brown mottling

The navigable river running from the sea south to Switzerland is
the Rhine River.


2. VICTORY CONDITIONS

2.1 The game is played for 47 turns.  At the end of the game, the
Victory points are totalled for both sides.  The side with the
most points wins.

2.2 The German player receives 1 victory point for each V unit
which attacks London.

2.3 The Allied Player receives 1 victory point per turn for each
City hex east of the Rhine River under Allied control.  Cities on
Rhine River hexes do not count towards this total.



3. UNIT COUNTERS

3.1 The unit counters represent the military  formations and
support units which took part in the Invasion of France and  the
campaign that followed. Green are US, Yellow are British, blue
are French, dark grey are German.  Trucks and supplies may
flipped to represent both sides.

3.2 Information on a unit counter:

TYPES: 
Headquarters (HQ) - Generally associated with the name of a
General, these represent artillery and air support assets not
organic to any particular unit.

Reserve Infantry (German only) represented by an empty box, are
associated with garrison, training or reserve units.  These units
were often under-strength, undertrained and under-equipped.

Infantry are represented by an "X"

Armored/Panzer are represented by an oval.

Panzer Grenadier are represented by an infantry symbol overlaid
on an armor symbol.  These are mechanized infantry.  (German
only-most American and British infantry units were comparable to
the German mechanized at this point, although the German
formations often had heavier equipment.)

Airborne are represented by wings.  These are parachute trained
infantry.  

Tactical Air units are represented by a fighter silhouette.

Naval gunfire units are represented by a ship outline. 

Trucks are represented by a truck silhouette.  These represent
overland supply lines.  Trucks are generic and may be flipped over to
represent either allied or german.

Transport are represented by a transport ship silhouette.  These
represent the naval transport assets for moving combat units over
water.

Strategic weapons - V rockets and SAC Bombers.  These units,
while rarely directly involved in combat operations in the
campaign, may have a significant indirect impact.

Supply dumps are represented by a depot symbol and a number showing the
value.  Supply markers are generic, and can be switched from allied to
German by flipping them over.

IDENTIFICATION: Identifies unit for historical reference.
LW-Luftwaffe ground support troops.
SS Schutzstaffel, German elite troops.

COMBAT FACTOR-The first number is the basic combat strength for
attacking and defending.

MOVEMENT FACTOR-The second number is the maximum number of hexes
a unit may normally move in one turn.

4. PREPARE TO PLAY 

4.1 Load the savegame file named "F44.Setup"

4.2 The German player first places all his units,then the allied
player places his units.  Units may be placed anywhere on the
mapboard, subject to the following restrictions:

4.21 No German units may be placed in England or Corsica.  Allied
units starting in England may be placed anywhere in England. 
Allied units starting in Corsica may be placed anywhere in
Corsica.

  [Units in Corsica represent allied units available in the 
mediterranean theater at large.]

4.22 No units which are in the forcepool boxes in the "F44.Setup"
may be placed on the map.  These will be released from the
forcepools through replacement during play.

4.23 49th and 51st SS Panzer Brigade (3-6), 3rd, and 15th SS Panzer
Grenadier Divisions (5-5) and 106th Panzer Brigade (2-6), must be
placed on any hex east of the Rhine river hexes

4.24 Allied naval support units must be placed in a port or
all-sea hex.

4.24 No more than two units may be placed on the same hex.

4.25 No units may placed in Neutral Countries.

4.26 All air units must be placed on cities or towns.

4.27 The German player may distribute up to 100 supply points anywhere on
the map.

4.28 Each side receives 18 trucks.  

 5. SEQUENCE OF PLAY

5.1 ALLIED TURN

5.11 Weather phase: The Allied player throws a die and adds the
weather modifier from the turn chart to determine the weather
conditions for the turn.

5.12 Allied replacement phase: Allied replacements are computed
from accumulated replacement points.  The Allied player may
expend these points to resurrect units from the dead or new unit
force pools, or reconstitute half strength units.  Resurrected
units are placed in England or Corsica.

5.13 Allied Support Phase:  Allied air units are returned a
maximum of 20 hexes to friendly towns or cities.  The Allied
player checks all his units for their isolation and supply
status.  The total supply capacity for this turn is determined
and recorded.

5.14 Allied Invasion Phase: If he is invading this turn, the
Allied player places his invading units on invasion hexes (see
section 12 INVASIONS).

5.15 Airborne/sea transport Phase: The Allied player moves all of
his units by sea transport that he wishes, lands invading units
that are unopposed, and performs airborne drops.

5.16 Allied Movement Phase: The Allied player announces all his
attacks, specifying air/naval support.  He then resolves the
attacks one at a time in the order in which they were announced.

5.17 Allied Tactical Air Phase: the Allied player places all his
remaining air counters and strategic bombers that were not used
in attack.



5.2 GERMAN TURN 

5.21 German replacement phase:  German replacements are computed
from accumulated replacement points and strategic bombing
results.  The german may expend these points to resurrect units
from the dead force pool, or reconstitute half strength units. 
Resurrected units are placed on the east edge of the mapboard.

5.22 German support Phase:  German air units are returned a
maximum of 20 hexes to friendly towns or cities. The German
player checks all of his units for isolation and supply status.

5.23 German Movement Phase: The German player now moves all of
his units on the mapboard that he wishes, and places new units on
the east edge of the map if appropriate.  New units may be moved
on the turn of placement.

5.24 German Combat Phase: The German announces all his attacks,
specifying air support.  He then resolves the attacks one at a
time in the order in which they were announced.

5.25 German Tactical Air Phase: the German player places all his
remaining air counters that were not used in attack or
interdicted.

5.3 END OF TURN

5.31  The allied player determines the number of allied units
which moved or participated in combat (attack or defense).  If
this number is less than the total supply capacity for the turn,
a number of supply counters equal to the difference may be placed
on any allied controlled port.

5.32 The German player checks off one Turn on the Time Record
Card and the players repeat steps 5.1 through 5.3 for the
remainder of the game.

5.4 An Allied Turn and the following German Turn together
represent one week. Turn 1, the first invasion turn is the first
turn of the game. The game ends at the end of Turn 47, or when
one side has surrendered.



6. MOVEMENT

6.1 In the movement portion or your turn you may move as many of
your own units as you wish; all, some, or none.

6.2 Units are moved one at a time in any direction or combination
of directions up to the limit of their movement factors. The die
has nothing to do with movement, it is only used to resolve
combat.

6.3 Each unit may move any number of hexes up to its movement
factor, subject to terrain, supply, and the presence of enemy
units.

6.4 Movement factors are not transferable from one unit to
another, nor can they be accumulated from one turn to another.

6.5 Units may move over or stack on top of friendly units, but
may never enter a hex occupied by an enemy unit.

6.6 Units may never move into neutral countries off the
board.German units may not move into sea hexes.  Allied units may
moving into sea hexes subject to sea transport limitations.



7. STACKING 

7.1 A player may stack two units in a hex, or two units and a HQ
unit.  Trucks, ships, supplies, mulberries, air and strategic
warfare units do not count against stacking.

7.2 Units may move over friendly stacks, as long as at the end of
the movement and at the end of combat no stack is in excess of
the limits prescribed in 7.1.

7.3 Players may break up or recombine units into different stacks
at any time during the movement phase or as a result of combat.



8. ZONES OF CONTROL

8.1 A unit's Zone of Control (ZOC) normally consists of its own
hex and all six adjacent hexes:

8.2 ZOC does not extend across river hex sides, out of Rhine
river hexes, or out to sea. 

8.3 A unit must end its movement as soon as it enters an enemy
ZOC, even if that hex is also in the ZOC of another friendly
unit.

8.4 Units starting their turn in an enemy unit's ZOC may not move
directly to another hex in that same unit's ZOC and then reenter
that unit's ZOC.

8.5 A unit may move from a hex of an enemy unit's ZOC directly
into a hex belonging to a second enemy unit's ZOC, providing that
it does not remain in the ZOC of any unit whose ZOC  it was in
the start of movement.

8.6 The presence of a friendly unit in a ZOC does not negate the
ZOC of an adjacent enemy unit under any circumstances. The ZOC of
the enemy unit still serves to block movement, retreat routes,
and cut off supply lines.


9. SPECIAL UNITS

9.1 Tactical air units may be alloted to attacks in the player
movement phase.  The number of air units allotted to an attack
may not exceed the number of friendly divisions in the attack. 
Each air unit adds a combat factor of 1 to the attack. 

9.12 Air units may not be placed further than 20 hexes from
their position at the start of the turn.

9.121 2 air units may be stacked at the start of the turn in a
town hex, and 4 air units in a city hex.  Air units may not stack
in any other hexes at the start of the turn.

9.13 Air units which do not support attacks may be placed in the
tactical air phase.  The presence of enemy air units in a hex
negates the effect of friendly air units on a 1 for 1 basis.  A
unit placed in the tactical air phase has the following effects,
assuming there are more friendly air units in that hex than
enemy:

9.131 Enemy supply may not be traced through that hex.

9.132 Enemy units must expend an additional movement point to
enter or leave that hex.

9.133 Defenders in that hex receive an additional combat factor
for each air unit in the hex, not to exceed the number of
divisions in the hex.

9.134 Enemy air and V-1 (after turn 9) units may not leave that
hex.

9.14 Allied air units which are not used in a turn may be
transferred between Corsica and England at the end of the turn.

9.2   The Allied strategic bomber unit is one unit with a factor
of twenty. The strategic bomber is used to alter the german
replacement rate.  German replacements are reduced by one combat
factor for each two unopposed strategic bomber factors devoted to
bombing.  The strategic bomber and escorting fighters are designated by
placing them in the "Bomb" box in the upper left of the map. 

9.21 Each German air unit within 5 hexes of the east edge of the
mapboard may reduce the strategic bomber by one if it is not used
for anything else in the turn, and has no allied air units placed
on it.  Allied tactical air units may negate German air units on
a one for one basis if devoted to strategic bombing with the
bombers.

9.22 Strategic bombers may also be used in a direct support
role, adding it's factors to any attack.  Note that if this is
done, the German will receive its full replacement rate that
turn.  Strategic bombers may not be used against any City hex
west of the Rhine river.  Strategic Bombers may not be used in
conjunction with amphibious assaults.  Strategic bombers may be
used against town hexes.
   [This rule is meant to provide the Allied player with a
"carpet bombing" capability, but at the cost of reducing the
strategic industrial bombing campaign, and a resulting surge in
German replacements.]


9.23 Strategic bomber factors are reduced by half during any
weather condition except clear.

9.3 German V units generate victory points for the German
player. Beginning on Turn 2 the German receives one V-1 unit per
turn.  Beginning on turn 14, the German receives 1 V-2 unit per
turn.

9.31  The German receives one victory point for each V unit
delivered to London.  V units have a range of 20.  V units may be
placed in any German controlled hex which can trace a supply line
to the east edge of the mapboard.  V units may be moved to London
the turn after placement.  Once moved to London, the V unit is
removed and may reappear in a following turn per 9.3.

9.32  V-1 units may not pass through Allied air units after turn
9.  V-2 units may always pass through Allied air units.

9.33  The number of V units is limited to the available
counters.  V units may not move once placed, and may not be used
on the turn of placement.

9.4 Allied naval gunfire units may add their combat factor to
any allied attack against units which are adjacent to a sea hex. 

10. COMBAT

10.1 Whenever units end the movement phase adjacent to an enemy
unit they may attack. Units that are in enemy ZOC may attack
adjacent enemy units but do not have to attack. During each
player turn the player moving his units is the attacker; his
opponent is the defender.

10.2 Before resolving combat the attacker may move as many units
as he wishes into attack positions, subject to stacking and
movement restrictions. The attacker may make as many attacks as
he wishes, but each attacking unit may only attack once per turn,
and each defending unit may only be attacked once per turn.

10.3 After all movement is completed the attacker states which
attacks he is making. He must commit himself for all attacks and
allocate Air/Naval Support before any attacks are resolved.

10.4 The attacker resolves his attacks in the order in which they
were declared, with the attacker executing each advance or
retreat as each attack is resolved. Thus, an advance resulting
from one attack may serve to cut retreat routes in a subsequent
attack.

10.5 When two or more units attack one defending unit the attack
factors of the attacking units are totaled into one combined
attack factor.

10.6 When one unit attacks two or more defending units, the
combat factors of the defending units are totaled into one
combined defense factor.

10.7 When several units attack several defending units the
attacker has the choice of how to divide combat, provided each
attacking unit is adjacent to the specific defending unit that it
is attacking.

10.8 Attacking units in the same hex may make separate attacks
against different defending units.

10.9 If there is more than one unit defending a hex, the
defending combat factors are added together.  The attacker may
not divide combat against stacked units on the same hex into more
than one attack.

10.10 The attacker cannot split any one unit's attack factor and
apply it to more than one attack. Similarly, a defending unit's
defense factor cannot be split.

10.11 Odds may not be worse than 1-4. 

10.12 No unit may attack more than once per turn. Similarity, no
defending hex may be attacked more than per turn. 



11. RESOLVING COMBAT

11.1 Once he has decided how to divide all combat, the attacker
resolves each attack one at a time. The attacker totals the
combat factors of all attacking units taking part in this attack
including any adjustments to the defense strength due to terrain;
then he totals the combat factors of all defending units being
attacked in that attack, including any adjustments to the defense
strength due to terrain. The "odds" of the attack must be reduced
to the basic odds shown on the Combat Results Table (CRT). To so
this, divide the smaller factor total into itself and into the
larger factor total, The resulting two numbers (one of which is
"1") are expressed as a strength ratio, placing the number which
represents the attacker first in the ratio. Fractions of any size
are rounded either up or down to the whole number most favorable
to the defender. For example: 2-4 becomes 3-1;11-4 becomes
2-1;4-12 become 1-3; 4-11 becomes 1-3.

11.2 The odds thus determined, the attacker rolls the die and
cross-indexes the result with the proper odds column of the CRT
to the result of the attack.

11.3 The various combat results are explained below:

   A X - X attacking units are flipped to half strength by the
attacker.  If the unit(s) are already half strength, they are
eliminated.  A unit which has not been flipped can be flipped and
removed, which counts for two.

   D X - X defending units are flipped to half strength by the
defender.  If the unit(s) are already half strength, they are
eliminated.  A unit which has not been flipped can be flipped and
removed, which counts for two.

   AR - All attacking units involved in the attack are
retreated, as determined by the attacker.

   DR - All defending units involved in the attack are retreated,
as determined by the attacker.

11.31 Air and naval support units are never eliminated as a
result of combat.  Defending air units do not prevent advance
after combat.

11.4 Units may not retreat into or through enemy ZOC, sea hexes,
neutral countries, or off the board. A unit may not end its
retreat in violation of stacking limits, in a hex yet to be
attacked this phase, or in its original hex.  A unit will
continue to retreat until it is no longer adjacent to any enemy
units.  Units that cannot retreat are eliminated.  Any losses are
taken before retreats are accomplished.

11.5 If the defender's hex is vacated due to a combat result,
surviving attacking units making that attack may advance into the
defender's vacated hex immediately after the attack is resolved,
providing stacking limits are not exceeded. The ZOC of defending
units are ignored during advance after combat.

11.6 Units attacked at odds of 7-1 or greater are automatically
eliminated.  



12.    AMPHIBIOUS OPERATIONS

12.1 The Allied player may perform amphibious operations
(invasions) on any turn prior to turn 20 in which there is clear
weather.

12.2 Only units which begin their turn in a port may be eligible
for sea-transport.  One sea transport point is required to
transport an infantry division three hexes towards a proposed
invasion hex, fractions rounded up.  One sea transport point is
required to transport an armor division two hexes towards a
proposed invasion hex, fractions rounded up.  For example, 4
transport points would be required to transport a single infantry
unit from it's port of embarkation across eleven sea-hexes to
it's proposed invasion site.  The same trip would take 6 sea
transport points for an armor unit.

   [Although the allies weren't lacking in maritime assets,
transporting organic combat units required a more specialized
type of ship.  This rule is intended to show how the transport
assets are taxed harder if the round trip takes longer.  A single
transport could conceivably make three or four or more round
trips at the narrowest point of the channel in one turn, but that
would drop to less than 2 if the destination is south of the
Brittany peninsula.]


12.3 The invading units are placed on sea hexes adjacent to the
beach hex to be attacked. Up to two units may be placed on each
sea hex. No more than two land units may be used to attack a
single beach hex from the sea.  

12.4 Airborne Divisions may be dropped in any playable land hex
not occupied be German units (see 18). Airborne Divisions may use
sea transport and invade like Infantry Divisions, but they must
consume sea transport points if used in this manner. 

12.5 Units that are placed on sea hexes adjacent to vacant beach
hexes must be moved onto those hexes, even if such movement
places them in German ZOC. They may attack any adjacent German
units. They may not move farther inland on the turn of invasion.

12.6 Units placed in sea hexes adjacent to beach hexes occupied
by German units must attack those German units. German units may
be attacked simultaneously both from sea and land hexes, which
would be resolved as one attack.

12.7  Combat results requiring a retreat by the attacker may be
ignored by the attacker.  If a retreat is required, the attacking
unit is automatically flipped over to half strength.  The
attacker may then return the reduced unit to England/Corsica or
attack again using the new reduced value as the combat factor. 
Air/Naval support given to the first attack may be used in the
second, but no new support may be added.



13. ALLIED REINFORCEMENTS

13.1 On all non-invasion turns Allied units in Britain or Corsica
may be sea transported to Mulberry units or controlled port
hexes.

13.11 A Mulberry unit may be placed on any beach hex which was
successfully invaded by the Allies (an Allied unit advanced to
that hex from a sea hex during an invasion) immediately after the
combat phase.  Once placed, a Mulberry unit may not move.  If a
German unit occupies the hex, the Mulberry unit is removed from
play.  A Mulberry unit is treated as a minor port after
placement.  A Mulberry unit may only be placed in a hex which can
show a continuous line of sea hexes from it's starting position.

   [Mulberry units represent the barges that the allies used to
create ad hoc harbors at the invasion site.  These were code-
named "Mulberries."]

13.12 A port is controlled if it has been occupied by an Allied
unit.

13.13 Some ports may be accessible from the sea only by a
navigable waterway.  Sea transport may arrive in these ports only
if there are no German units adjacent to the waterway between the
port and the sea.

13.2 To be used for sea transport a minor port must be controlled
during Allied supply phase of that turn.  A Major port may not be
used for sea transport if it has not been repaired.  A Major port
repaired to a supply level of 5 may accept one sea-transport
unit.  A Major port repaired to a supply level of 10 may accept
two sea-transport units.  

13.3 After sea-transport, units may not move further in that
turn.  This reflects the period required to assemble, offload and
organize each unit.  Only two units and an HQ may land in a port
in any turn.

13.4 Sea-transported units placed adjacent to a German may
attack in the same turn.

13.5 One sea transport point is required to transport any non-HQ
division three hexes from a port hex to a port hex, fractions
rounded up.  For example, 4 transport points would be required to
transport any unit from it's port of embarkation across eleven
sea-hexes to it's proposed invasion site.  HQ's may be placed on
any port hex if they start their turn on a port hex, without
consuming Sea Transport points.

13.6 Units may be brought ashore through any number of ports,
subject to sea transport availability.

13.61 For each unit being sea transported, it must show a
continuous path of transport points originating in the hex of
embarkation, not more than three hexes apart, to the point of
debarkation.  One transport point may only transport one division
per turn.

13.62 Parachute units that land by air drop do not consume
sea-transport points; air dropping parachute units have their own
limit: no more than 3 units may air drop in any one turn.
Parachute units that land by sea consume sea-transport like
infantry divisions.

13.7 The number of units that can be brought ashore is also
limited by the Allied supply capacity (see 16.8, below).


14. SEA MOVEMENT

14.1 German unit may not move anywhere by sea transport. Allied
units may move by sea transport only between England/Corsica and
the continent. Movement from England/Corsica to the continent is
governed by rule 13, Allied Reinforcements.

14.2 Allied units on the continent may move to England/Corsica by
beginning their movement on any controlled port or Mulberry hex
(see 13.1). They may then move to England/Corsica by expending
sea transport points like any other sea-transport action.

14.3  Sea transport from one continental port to another on the
same turn is not allowed.  Sea transport between Britain and
Corsica is not allowed.

15. REPLACEMENTS

15.1 One the 2nd turn and on every turn thereafter, the German
player receives replacements from previously eliminated German
units.

15.2 The German replacement rate is 10 combat factors per turn.
Replacements may be taken from any type of unit except HQ units. 
The German replacement rate may be reduced by strategic bombing
(see 10.2).

15.3 German replacement units are placed on the board at the
start of the German player's turn. They may only be placed on any
east-edge land hex north of Switzerland. If placed in an Allied
ZOC, they may not move. Otherwise they may move and attack
normally on the turn of placement.

15.4 From turn 4 on, the Allies may receive replacements from the
dead or unused force pools.  French units may not be used as
replacements under this rule.  Airborne units may not be
selected as replacements before turn 20.

15.5 Units which have been reduced to half strength may be
reconstituted to full strength using replacement factors.  A unit
may not be reconstituted if there are enemy units within two
hexes at the start of the allied turn.  A unit which is
reconstituted may not move or attack in it's turn.

15.6 From turn 26 on, the Allies may receive French
reinforcements if they control Paris.  On the first turn the
allies receive French reinforcements, they may receive one combat
factor for each City on the continent controlled by the allies. 
Thereafter, the allies receive one French combat factor per turn. 
The allies may defer this as long as desired if they seek to
capture more cities.  French replacement units arrive in Paris.

15.7 Non-French replacement units are placed in Britain or
Corsica and may be used normally on the same turn.

15.8 Unused replacement factors may be accumulated from turn to
turn. Record accumulated replacement factors in the appropriate
column in the Time Record Card.



16. ISOLATION AND SUPPLY CAPACITY 

16.1 ISOLATION: A unit that cannot trace an unbroken path of
hexes from the unit back to a source of friendly supply is
isolated.

16.12 The path cannot pass through any enemy zone of control, any
sea hex, any neutral country, nor the edge of the board.

16.13 For the Germans, all supply lines must be traced to the
east edge of the board north of Switzerland or to a supply
counter.

16.14 For the Allies, each supply line must go to some controlled
port or to a supply counter.

16.15 Note that a unit not in supply is not necessarily isolated.

16.2 EFFECTS OF ISOLATION: 

16.21 Units that are isolated at the beginning of their turn are
automatically out of supply for the rest of that turn (see 16.6
below). 

16.22 Units that are isolated both at the beginning and at the
end of their turn are automatically flipped at the end of their
turn to show they are at half strength.  Units already at half
strength are eliminated.


16.3 SUPPLY CAPACITY: In addition to avoiding isolation, Units
must also meet supply capacity limitations.

16.31 Each minor port has a capacity to supply up to five
divisions per turn, if controlled.  Each major port has a
capacity to supply a number of units from 0 up to 25 based on the
repair condition of that port.  A supply counter has a one-time
capacity to supply the number shown on the counter.

16.311 If supply is drawn from a supply counter, that counter is
reduced by the number of units which drew supply from it. 

16.312 Major ports are considered to be damaged beyond use for
the first two turns after they are captured by allied forces, and
may not be used for supply or sea-transport.

16.313 The allied player may repair one port per turn.  A port
must have been in allied control for at least two turns to be
eligible for repair.

16.3131 When a major port is repaired, it's supply capacity is
increased by 5.  A port may be repaired a total of five turns,
for a maximum supply capacity of 25.  Counters are provided to
show the condition of repaired ports.

16.32 Supplies are transported by truck or by train. The allied
player may not transport supplies by train.  A truck may supply
any number of units within 3 hexes, including other trucks, if
that truck is in supply.  In effect a supply line is a series of
trucks no more than 3 hexes apart.

   [The main problem facing the allied commanders after the
breakout from Normandy was insufficient trucks to maintain a long
supply line.  No ports east of Normandy were liberated until well
into September, and those required some repair to be functional
again.  These problems were exacerbated by weather when the rain
started.]

16.321 No more units may be supplied than the supply capacity of
the source from which trucks draw their supply.

16.33 Rail lines may provide supply to German units if they can
trace an unbroken line to the east edge of the mapboard, free of
allied air units.  The east edge has no limit on supply capacity.

16.336 Units in the same hex with a supply source are
automatically supplied, and automatically count towards the
supply capacity of that hex. 

16.4 Units that cannot trace a supply line to a supply source
that has the capacity to supply them are out of supply.  Units
that are out of supply at the beginning of their turn (when
supply lines are traced) may not attack for the rest of that
turn and have a movement factor of 1 that turn.

16.5 Units that start a turn in Britain are automatically
supplied for the rest of that turn, even if they air drop, invade
or land on the continent.

16.6 At the end of a turn, the allied player tallies the total
number of units which either moved or participated in combat or
both.  If this number is less than the total supply capacity for
the beginning of that turn, the allied player may place a number
of supply counters on the continent equal to the difference. 
These counters may be used as one-time supply sources.  A truck
supply line must still be traced to the supply counter.

  [This rule is intended to allow the Allied player to build up a
supply reserve on the continent without a port prior to launching
an offensive by keeping his units out of action and relatively
immobile.]

16.7  At the beginning of the game, the German player receives a
number of supply counters.  He may place these in cities and thus
make them invulnerable to isolation as a result.  Note that
supply points are not consumed if a unit does not move or fight,
therefore a unit holed up in a city with a supply counter could
conceivably deny that city to the enemy indefinitely if they were
never attacked.

17. STRATEGIC MOVEMENT

17.1 Supplied units may use strategic movement to double their
available movement factors, provided that they are not adjacent
to enemy units, including enemy air units, at any time during the
turn.

17.2 All Allied units may use strategic movement. German reserve
divisions may not use strategic movement. 

17.3  German replacements may use strategic movement on the turn
of placement.


18. AIRBORNE UNITS
[German airborne units at this stage of the war were airborne in
name only. After the disaster at Crete, airborne operations fell
out of favor with the German high command.  On the other hand,
Allied airborne divisions had very real airborne capacities, as
demonstrated at Normandy, Arnhem, Wesel.

18.1 Allied airborne divisions starting in any town or city in
Britain may drop onto any hex on the Continent, within 20 hexes
of their start hex. Airborne division drop before land movement,
but after amphibiously invading units are placed to sea.

18.2 They may not drop onto hexes occupied by German units,
mountain hexes, forest hexes, neutral countries, or sea hexes.
They may land in German ZOC.

18.3 No more than 3 airborne divisions may drop on any one turn.

18.4 They may not move any father on the turn of drop.

18.5 There is no limit to the number of drops an airborne
division may make in a game.

18.6 An airborne division is considered supplied during the turn
that if makes a drop.


19. HEADQUARTERS UNITS
 [Headquarters represent theater assets such as close air
support and artillery in addition to the organic assets of
individual units.]

19.1 A HQ unit may lend its combat factor to any attack directed
at a hex within two hexes of the HQ, and may lend its combat
factor to any units defending within two hexes of the HQ.

19.11 HQ units cannot lend support to actions that do not contain
at least one division that is the same nationality as the HQ
unit.  For the purposes of this rule, the British, Canadians, and
Polish are considered to be the same nationality.

19.2 HQ units have a ZOC and enemy units entering it must stop
and attack them as if they were attacking regular combat units. 

19.3 Headquarters units do not count as normal units for
stacking.  Only one HQ may be present in any hex.

19.4 Only one HQ may lend it's support to any given combat.  A
single HQ can lend support to as many combats as take place
within 2 hexes.



20. MOUNTAINS/FORESTS

20.1 Movement through Mountain and forest hexes is naturally
slower than normal. Thus all land units expend 3 movement factors
to move into a mountain hex, and 2 movement factors to move
through a forest hex.

20.2 The defense factor of all units doubles while on a mountain
or forest hex, even if attacked from another mountain or forest
hex.

20.3 Zones of control may not extend into or out of forest hexes.


21. RIVERS

21.1 All land units expend 3 movement factors to cross a river,
unless the unit is moving into or out of a town or city, or is
following a rail line across the river.

21.2 ZOC do not extend across river hexsides. Thus, units may
pass right by enemy units on the opposite side of a river without
stopping.

21.3 If a unit attacks across a river, it's combat factor is
halved, fractions rounded down. Combat factors are halved
individually for each unit, thus two 5-factor units attacking
across a river would have a total of four attacking factors.

21.4 Units must stop upon entering or leaving a Navigable river
hex, unless it enters another navigable river hex or is moving
into or out of a city hex.  

21.5 Units may not attack out of a Navigable river hex into a
non-navigable-river hex unless one of those hexes is a city or
town. 
  [Some rivers and estuaries in the theater presented formidable
obstacles, most notably the Rhine river, which is extremely wide
and flanked along much of it's length by steep bluffs.  Three
kids armed with slingshots could create a noticeable deterrent to
crossing this terrain.]


22. CITIES

22.1 Cities are treated as normal land hexes for movement
purposes.

22.2 The defense factor of all units triples when attacked while
in a city.

22.3 All cities are considered to have rail lines through them
for purposes of German supply.


23. TOWNS

23.1 Towns are treated as normal land hexes for movement
purposes.

23.2 The defense factor of all units doubles when attacked while
in a town.

24. FORTIFIED HEXES
   [This line of hexes running along the traditional German
border west of the Rhine represents the Seigfried line, the
German fortified area which they fell back to after the close of
the Falaise gap.]

24.1 Fortified hexes are treated as normal land hexes for
movement purposes.

24.2 The defense factor of German units (but not Allied) doubles
when attacked while in a fortified hex.

25. BEACH HEXES 

25.1 Beach hexes are doubled on defense from any attack from the
sea, except on turns 1,5, 9 and 14.  Beach hexes are treated as
clear hexes otherwise.
   [Amphibious assault is a very difficult thing to accomplish
under the best of circumstances.  This rule reflects the
vulnerability of German defenses during low-tide turns]

26. NEUTRAL COUNTRIES

26.1 Switzerland, Italy and Spain are neutral countries.
  [Of course, Italy was not neutral, but was not a significant
factor in the Battle for France, as the French Alps combined with
allied air power presented an effective barrier to movement]

26.2 No units may enter or pass through neutral countries,
whether during their movement phase of as a result countries.

26.3 Supply lines may not be traced through neutral countries.




TURN RECORD CHART
You should print this chart out and use it to record accumulated
reinforcements, weather results, and passage of turns.

TURN CHART / REPLACEMENT RECORD
Turn  Date   Weather  Remarks
1   J  6-12    +1       1
2   U  3-19     0       5     WEATHER RESULTS:
3   N 20-26     0               1 Clear
4     27-3      0       2       2 Clear
5   J  4-10     0       1       3 Clear
6   U 11-17     0               4 Clear
7   L 18-24     0               5 Clear
8     25-31     0               6 Clear
9   A  1-7      0       1       7 Mud
10  U  8-14     0               8 Mud
11  G 15-21     0               9 Mud
12    22-28     0              10 Mud
13    29-4      0              11 Snow
14  S  5-11     0       1      12 Snow
15  E 12-18    +1              13 Snow
16  P 19-25    +1              14 Snow
17    26-2     +2              15 Blizzard           
18  O  3-9     +2                      
19  C 10-16    +3                      
20  T 17-23    +3       3
21    24-30    +4             Mud:   
22    31-6     +5              All movement halved (FRU).
23  N  7-13    +5              Supply ranges reduced to two for
24  O 14-20    +5                all trucks and combat units.
25  V 21-27    +9              Strategic bombers halved.
26    28-4     +9       4      No amphibious operations.
27  D  5-11    +9             
28  E 12-18    +9             Snow: 
29  C 19-25    +9              Only armor and mechanized exert
30    26-1     +9                ZOC.
31  J  2-8     +9              Supply range reduced to two for 
32  A  9-15    +8                all trucks and combat units.
33  N 16-22    +7              Strategic Bombers halved.
34    23-29    +6              Number of allied TAC available 
35    30-5     +6                equal to the result of two dice.
36  F  6-12    +5                                
37  E 13-19    +5             Blizzard: 
38  B 20-26    +5              All units double defense
39    27-5     +4              All movement halved (FRU).
40  M  6-12    +4              Only armor and mechanized exert
41  A 13-19    +4                 ZOC.
42  R 20-26    +4              Supply range reduced to two for
43    27-2     +3                all trucks and combat units.
44  A  3-9     +3              No Airborne drops.
45  P 10-16    +3              Strategic bombers, tactical
46  R 17-23    +3                 air cannot be used.
47    24-30    +3              

Notes:
1 Beach hexes not doubled against amphibious assault (25.1)
2 Begin Allied replacement rate.
3 Amphibious Invasion no longer possible.
4 French reinforcements available at Paris (see 15.6)  Allied may
  select airborne units for replacements.
5 Begin German replacement rate.

COMBAT RESULTS

Die | 1-4    1-3   1-2    1-1    2-1    3-1    4-1    5-1   6-1
1   | A3R    A3R   A3R    A3R    A3R   A2/D1  A1/DR  A1/D2 A1/D2
2   | A3R    A3R   A2R    A2R    A2R   A1/DR  A1/D1R  D1R   D1R  
3   | A3     A2    A1     A2    A1R/D1 A1/D1R  D1R    D2    D2R
4   | A2R    A1R   AR    A1/D1  A1/D1R  D1R    D2R    D2R   D3R 
5   | A1     AR   A1/D1  A1/D2R  D2     D2R    D3R    D3R   D4
6   |A2/D1  A1/D1 A1/D2R  D2R    D3R    D3R    D4R    D4R   D4R

   A X - X attacking units are flipped to half strength by the
attacker.  If the unit(s) are already half strength, they are
eliminated.  A unit which has not been flipped can be flipped and
removed, which counts for two.

   D X - X defending units are flipped to half strength by the
defender.  If the unit(s) are already half strength, they are
eliminated.  A unit which has not been flipped can be flipped and
removed, which counts for two.

   AR - All attacking units involved in the attack are
retreated, as determined by the attacker.

   DR - All defending units involved in the attack are
retreated, as determined by the attacker.
