
Overview
   I made some rouge keymaps for adom and decided to upload them for you to
enjoy.  Do whatever you want with them.  I place them in the public domain.
Use these files at your own risk.  The author is not responsible for any 
damages or losses incurred by using these files.  You can contact me
(Gaelan Griffin) via E mail at fiobhan at gte.net

What is Adom?
   Adom is a new rouge decendant.  It most resembles a cross between nethack
and omega with a bit of moria/angband thrown in.  If you've played any of 
these games you'll feel right at home playing adom.  Try it, it's great!  
Get it at aminet from game/role.

What are rouge key commands?
   Most rouge-like games today use the numeric pad to represent movement
since all eight cardinal directions are easily represented.  Rouge commands
use letters that are easily typed with the right hand in the home typeing
position.  Although not as easy to learn as the number pad, they are faster
since you don't have to move your hand between the number pad and the home
position to type the various commands or move your left hand over.

How do I use these?
   After you've installed Adom simply copy the file named adom.kbd from the
drawer that corresponds to the keymap you want to your adom data drawer.  On
most amigas it should be named adom.data, type adom -d to find out if you're
not sure.

   Here is a brief description of the keymaps.  For a more complete listing
read the corresponding keyref.kdb or look at the keybindings during play
by typeing '?' and then 'k'

default: The default keymap, the one included with adom.

basicrouge: This is the first version I made.  If you want to make your own
rougekeymaps you can use this as a base since this contains the least number
of changes to the original keys.  You probabely won't want to actually use 
this one.  All basic directions use the rouge keys (left is h, right is l).
The original adom commands were "promoted" for example the command use tool
'u' becomes 'U'.

walkrouge: This is for people who are used to Adom's walk commands or don't
want to relearn alot of the old commands.  Basically the same as basicrouge
the only change is walk versions of the movement commands (walk left is w h).
This is also a good place to start if you want to make a custom keymap.

fullrouge: The walk commands are replaced with the capital rouge keys e.x.
walk left is now 'H'.  The keys have been further promoted: use tool is now
":u".  I made a couple of radical changes of some keys to make them more like
some familiar rouge type games.  Kick is now ^d like in nethack.  Walk on 
the spot is now R for Rest (as in moria/angband).  Examine environment has 
been moved to 'X' (also like moria/angband). Probabely some more that I have
forgotten.  This is the one I use.  If you don't like this one use walkrouge
or try to make your own changes.
