                                 STAR CONTROL

Typed by SIDEWINDER of LSD.


Here are the technical reports of some of the ships
No ship is completely useless.  Exploit enemy weaknesses such as speed and
turning rate.  The Heirarchy have the best ships, but the Alliance ships can
be very effective if used tactically.
Slow ships like the Chenjesu and the Dreadnaughts can't pull away from the
planets gravitational field, so be careful.

THE SHIPS:
UR-QUAN DREADNAUGHT
This ship is capable of destroying almost any Alliance craft.  Remember that
each fighter launched costs one crew member; it's easy to get carried away and
leave your ship with a skeleton crew.  The only serious threat comes from the
Earthling craft.

MYCON PODSHIP
Even though this ship comes with a large crew and lots of fuel, it can only
fire its weapon twice without re-charging.  The plasma balls it fires can be
destroyed by shooting, or by shields.
Run if none of the options are open to you.  It has trouble against Yehat
fighters.

ILWRATH
Providing you can remember where you are, the Ilwrath's cloaking device is
invaluable.
Sneaking up on an enemy craft is better than a frontal assault.  Chenjesu
craft are particularly useful against this.

VUX INTRUDER
Be careful when using the Vux's laser.  It drains energy incredibly fast.
When facing an enemy with a short range weapon wait for it to close in before
releasing a cluster of limpets and opening up with the laser.

SPATHI DISCRIMINATOR
The Spathi is the weakest Heirarchy ship.  Its speed and rear-firing missiles
are its only advantage.  Fly past the enemy at close range and fire missiles
in groups of three; its the only way to win with this ship.

ANDROSYNTH GUARDIAN
The only use for the Androsynth's main weapon is defensive.  A cluster of
bubbles will deter any close attacking enemy.  Comet mode is best employed at
close range as nothing can out-run it.  The Mmrnmhrm in heavy laser mode has
no trouble in knocking out the Androsynth comet.

UMGAH DRONE
By keeping its anti-matter cone active it acts as a shield as well as a
weapon.  Only Chenjesu and Mmrnmhrm craft are capable of firing around the
anti-matter cone.

CHENJESU
By launching two D.O.G.Is at the start of a battle, a Chenjesu can
successfully disable most enemy craft.  Never let the opposition get in close.
The Vux stands the best chance against this ship.

YEHAT
With its shields and dual cannon, the Yehat can destroy most larger craft.
Fire the cannon in short bursts so you're left with enough fuel to activate
the shields.  Very good against the Mycon podship.

MMRNMHRM
Against a slow enemy the Mmrnhrm can stay in fast mode just using its homing
missiles.  For tough opposition the heavy laser is extremely effective.  The
Androsynth is the best ship to send against this craft.

ARILOULALEELAY
By utilising its homing laser, warpdrive and teleporter, this ship can be very
potent.  The best tactic is to fly in fast then open up with the laser,
teleporting out as soon as the enemy reacts.

SYREEN
Attacking an enemy ship using the Syreen's laser is futile.  Attempt to
hypnotise the crew, collect them, then attack.  Running away is usually the
best tactic for this craft.  Avoid the Ur-Quan Dreadnaught at all costs.

EARTHLING CRUISER
This ship stands the best chance against the Dreadnaughts.  Its defensive
laser is capable of knocking out the Ur-Quan fighter.  Distance is the best
tactic as its long range missiles are both powerful and accurate.

SHIFOXTI
Forget winning a battle by using this ship's laser.  Use its speed to get in
behind the enemy then detonate.

End.
