Tips for playing A-Train by Colin Attle.

1.First of all people need a place to work,and if there's not enough people nearby 
where the factories,lease buildings are they'll get on a train to find work(dont worry 
I'm not norman tebbit).If you dont provide work for your populace,you will lose 
money bit by bit over the years until your broke.When building places of work, 
think where you're putting them.Too far away from a station and they'll lose 
money, too near to each other and they'll be competing against each other for 
business.

2.When laying down track,remember not to go mad with the designs.The more 
track you have the more property tax.Also try and build a belt line connecting with  
outlying residences,this way you'll need less passengers to break even on the trains 
you've bought.The equation here is,the greater distance between each station,the 
less passengers you need to pay off the train you've purchased.Also,if the distance
between stations is greater than 35 blocks,ticket prices are doubled.

3.Now I've a point to make and its just that.Points.If you put down an offshoot to 
your line,always remember to change the points setting in the schedule trains 
window.There's nothing worse than a train not going where it should,or even worse 
a pile up(now,which train went where).What's the differnce between large stations 
and small stations?.A lot.Large stations bring in more from sales income(different 
from fare income)and they allow roads to be built from the back of them.Large 
stations may cost a lot to buy,but in the long run they bring in more money,
(change from a small station to a large one when you see houses sprouting up near 
your station).As for departure times,set them to 8am to catch all the commuters,the 
next best time is 6pm and 1 hour stop is normally the best,but not in every 
situation.

4.Here follows a list of buildings and which others work best with them:-
Factory-stations(freight needs to be taken away to be used).
Needs 20 materials.
People emloyed-500.

Commercial-Station,appartments,lease buildings,hotels and residences.
Needs 12 materials.
People employed-550.

Hotel-Stations,factories,lease buildings,and recreational places.
Needs12 materials.
People employed-550.

Golf course-Stations,hotels,apartments and residences.
Needs 8 matreials.
People employed-200.

Amusement park-Stations,hotels,apartments and residences.
Needs 24 materials.
People employed-200.

Ski resort-Stations,hotels and apartments.
Needs 8 materials.
People employed-0

Stadium-Stations,hotels,lease buildings and apartments.
Needs 20 materials.
People employed-150.

Apartments-Stations,lease buildings and recreational places.
Needs 8 materials.
People employed-10.

Lease buildings-Stations and hotels.
Needs 10 materials for the first 5 floors,then 8 for each additional 5 floors.
People employed-120 per 5 floors.

Real estate.While not a building as such it can bring in some good money.If you 
buy the real estate first and then clear it this will speed up growth.Also try and 
predict where things will be built,as the land will be worth more.The number of 
subsiduaries you are limited to owning is 60 and 18 of any one sort.

5.You've been playing now for nearly a year and its coming to the end of march,
And we all know what that means-TAX.How do you avoid it?(this only appllies in 
the Computer game world,and not in real life kids).By converting your profits into 
property,BEFORE March 31st,one hour later and it wont count.You've been warned. 
Here's some examples of what can be bought and the pros and cons:-

A.Buying more railroad stock and track.
Pros:-You earn money all the time the new stations and trains.
Cons:-If you try to sell trains back,you'll only get half what you paid and stations 
and track can never be sold.

B.Building and purchasing more subsiduaries.
Pros:-If you get it right you can get up to 3,000,000 but which one.You can buy 
30 in the first year and 15 in the following years.
Cons:-You might go over the limit for a particular subsiduary and cant sell it.          

C.buying stocks.
Pros:-You can buy it and sell it whenever you choose.
Cons:-The stock market might crash(so its just like real life then).

D.Buying real estate.
Pros:-By building track or station nearby you'll increase its value.
Cons:-It can be too much trouble to buy stacks of Real estate,we are talking 100s.

6.A little while back we were talking about stocks,so here's some more details.The 
stock market goes in a cycle starting at being told"The market is stagnant" and 
finishes at"The price is dropping".This takes about 45-46 day to go full cycle.The 
next cycle is more important.Once every 18 months(maybe a couple or so of days 
after)the stock market has a new cycle,its then that the stock market prices go up,
and i do mean up.DONT DELAY in selling any stocks you have,because like shop 
sales,they dont come very often(surely this isnt based on real life).After that its back 
to the start of the first cycle.

7.Money.If you dont have enough of it you've lost.Good job you can borrow it 
from your friendly bank manager.Realise though,that there is different intrest rates 
at different moths of the year(that doesn't mean to say that all the months will be 
the same year in,year out).The rates of intrest can vary for 1-3 years as follows:-
1 year 2%-9%.
2 year 3%-10%.
3 year 4%-11%.
Just be sure that you can pay off your debts when the time comes,or you might 
find that you're game has ended prematurely.

Thats about it.Hope you've enjoyed these tips as much as I've had discovering 
them.This is Freeware.
    
