

           A Landscape design program for A3Dsimple-sim
          .. but it can be interesting just to play with...


 Requires  A1200.    A500 1mb should work but since it  uses 3d for all
operations it would be pretty slow.



The archive includes:-
- a compiled workbench version for non-amos users.
- amos source code..   for  users  with the 'Voodoo' 3d extension.
- the necessary data banks, 3d objects.
                                                  

The program  expects all the above archive to be 'extracted'  with it's
sub directories  into the same  main directory (any name)

 Done on PAL ,  NTSC  loses screen portion as  screens had to be maximum
to  get stuff in.   Sorry, I believe it's possible to switch fully to pal
from amos Ntsc.   But I don't know, and havn't time left, to find the
 last bits of info..
On A1200 use the boot select to get PAL.. and thence full screens.


     This is a rush upload.(. due to possibility  of being cut off from
internet  by provider cahnges) but the program seems to run Ok.
So in case of a problem, - if the  e-mail address gets no response -
    try posting to:-

             D. Lawrence
             Rock Road
             R.D. 7
             Pahiatua
             New Zealand


                       --------------------------


 The program was made to produce  a 3d landscape for A3Dsimple-sim,
but it turned out to  fun to do something of a utility nature  not
 needing absolute speed.

 It could be used if  extracted to the same directory as A3Dsimple-sim.
(but note that my archive extracter at least  wastes much time asking if it
should overwrite every last bit of the 3d objects!!)
  But I've included here the  data and objects seperately anyway as non-sim
 enthusiasts    may  find it  interesting to be able to flick between
screens and paste objects into a landscape, then look at it in 3d.
  We even have a sort of Zoom screen in 3d by joves!

 Those with amos 3d and object  modeller should be able to produce objects
to incorporate in a completely  original style.
I was tempted to do a futuristic style which I think would suit the blocky
nature of amos shapes.

   The most serious limit though, is the difficulty of choosing colours.
The whole landscape of A3Dsimple-sim uses only 5 colours (?) There's no real
choice about it.
    The amos3d people restricted the colours to certain combinations on
a 'block' ,   and  it's a constant battle to work out what can be used
with what and still allow the overall scene to work together.

  And the sky cannot be a polygon as it will either overwrite objects or
be 'bullet holed' by them....    so one colour goes straight away on the
sky.     But at least the water objects  can use the same colour.

I drew up a chart of the combinations possible and coloured it in, and
labelled colour numbers  on typical block shapes and plates so that I had
some idea what was going on..


If one was wanting to do your own obs. it might be easiest to hack about,
add to, and generally destroy and recombine the ones used here.
They are all in the 'objects'  directory.
          One point though..
 There is a suggestion in  the object modeller manual that the objects should
all have a particular i.d.   (entered  on the modeller itself).
I've never bothered   because it struck me as a good way to make objects
unworkable for other people.
I hope it doesn't mean my objects are in fact NOT useful to other amos3d
users.!!


                       ABOUT USING THE PROG.


     
   1.

The zoom screen is there for a particular reason.
Amos 3d doesn't allow the use of normal drawing routines or polygons as
these either overwrite objects, or are destroyed by them.
This means roads or water  have to be looooong objects.  And lining the ends
up together is very tricky indeed.

They may look alright on the main screen, but when you look with the 3d
travelling view it's obvious they are out of alignment.
  The cure is the zoom screen.
Select the object by clicking on the grid square it's in , (when at default
zoom size)  and the object can be dragged with button down or rotated
finely  with keys.   Even then you need to go to max zoom to be quite sure
you have it right.

    But it was  fun actually gettin it  going.
  By using smallest zoom you can zap quickly around the landscape.
       Or you can use the 'quick map' to click to a new position.
        Or just move the main map with cursor keys as usual..

                     -----------------

  2.
     The grid squares not occupied by an object show a 0 on the main screen.
This is necessary because the long or large objects overlap grids and it
becomes hard to be sure where their centre is. In constructing landscape out
of fixed shapes I found it necessary to move objects to overlap edges almost
every time.... bit of a juggling act.
                          
                     ----------------

  3.  There are a number of notes and instructions which appear on
 the various screens.. they are there because I kept forgetting how
to use the thing....  but they should be helpful.

                     ----------------

 4.  There is an alternate set of objects which are needed to get enough
shapes to make a landscape.   (some are a bit odd) and some are intended
to join together .. like long low hills.   Well, you should try making
a landscape out of blocks..                

An amos user could alter the prog. to add another set, but you would have to
study the  way the sets are selected.-( just by adding a number to the
basic click position) and make it toggle  through an extra number...and
then arrange to load and label the extra objects.

Currently there are only 20 different objects.
It might  be easier just to save new shapes under the same name as the
 objects already there.    Note that there is a second set of objects
which are used to make very narrow ones appear wider when used on the
main map.  ( Otherwise they don't show up...being to fine a line)
  There are various notes in the program itself.. also there because I
kept forgetting what did what...  

                     ------------------

5. 
     Some of the  objects are pretty hard to identify in the select
area of the main screen.
The top is the only road, the two below are hedgerows, 1st straight
2nd humped.
Further down the tiny 'squiggle splot'  is  a mast/target.


                        --------------------------

  6   If used to make a landscape for A3Dsimple-sim the targets should
not exceed 20 .  This is mainly so as to not have too many relative
changes to work out and fit on the relative map,  but  you would never
get them wiped out to 'win' the game over about 8  anyway.
 Things may get improved if I find a way to keep an internet connection.

Does anyone else out there get very frustrated with  using a minority
computer in a PC based world?!!

 Time is running out.

  Time to make a last  upload

                    David L.


Uploaded  August  98

                               ..............
