
                             Montana v1.2
                             같같같같같같
                        Mika Saastamoinen 1992-94

The files you should have now:

     LueMut    -    The Finnish readme-file.
                    (Want to learn some Finnish? Here's your chance! :)
     FMon      -    Finnish version of Montana (v1.0f)
                    (Try this for kicks! :)
     
     ReadMe    -    The file you're reading now!
     EMon      -    English version of Montana (v1.0e)
                    (No speaka Finnisha? Try this one instead! :)

     And icons for all the files.
                         
What is Montana?
같같같같같같같같
Montana is a simple but rather addictive remotely patience-like card game 
for the (most excellent!) Amiga computer. NOTE! This version of Montana 
REQUIRES version 2.0 (or later) of AmigaOS! If you're still running 1.2/1.3, 
you'd better go and get 2.0 NOW, because it's REALLY worth it!

Background information
같같같같같같같같같같같
I played this game for the 1st time on the Macintoshes at my school and I
liked it! :) So, I thought it would be nice to have this game on my Amiga,
but for a long time I didn't do anything about it until one Saturday
morning... I started playing around with GadToolsBox drawing buttons here, 
defining menus there and suddenly I realised that I had the 'perfect' user 
interface for Montana right in front of me! I started coding and -hey presto!-
by noon the next day the program was ready! And since it has worked without 
(almost :) any problems ever since, I thought I'd release it for your delight 
as well! ;)

Running Montana
같같같같같같같
You can start (both) Montana(s) by 

     1)   double-clicking its icon from the WB.
     2)   selecting 'Execute Command...' from the 'Workbench' menu and
          typing in the path and the name of the game (eg. ram:emon<return>).
     3)   opening a shell, CD'ing to the appropriate directory and
          typing the program's name. (eg. cd ram:<return> emon<return>).
     4)   or something like that...

Playing Montana
같같같같같같같
The basic idea of Montana is to arrange the cards in numerical order (from 2
to K and from left to right) with each suit on it's own row.

Playing Montana is simple! :) You'll notice 4 holes (instead of aces) on the
'table'. Choose one hole at random :) and look at the card on the left side
of the hole. Now find the card which is of the same suit and the next in
numerical order and click it with the mouse. Hey presto! The card you clicked
is moved (if it was the correct one...) to the hole! In this way you can
arrange the cards until...

Sooner or later you'll get stuck because of the K's. Then you can re-shuffle
the cards by selecting the 'Shuffle 1' or 'Shuffle 2' actions and try
again. NOTE! The cards which are already in the correct place and order will
NOT be shuffled! You can re-shuffle the cards twice and _WHEN_ you get stuck
after that, you can only select the 'Result'-action to see your score. Or
you could start a 'New game' or 'Quit'... :)

There are 2 special cards: 1) a 2 can only be placed in a hole at the left
edge of the table and 2) you can't place anything after a K (of course).

Version info
같같같같같같
This version (v1.2) is a major bug-fixing update to v1.0 and it also makes the
program look more "professional" on the new(ish) 3.0 machines (of which I'm
lucky to have one... :) V1.0 was the 1st proper release of the game. The 
previous release (v0.1 :) had a couple of (very) minor bugs, lot's of stupid 
inefficient code and couldn't even be started from an icon. All that has 
been fixed in this release, so enjoy it!
      
That's about it really...
같같같같같같같같같같같같
The gadgets and menu-actions ought to be pretty self-evident, so all I can
really say is that HAVE FUN WITH MONTANA! :) It's a very simple game, but
look what happened to Tetris! O:) And DON'T think Montana is a piece of cake
to finish, because it's not! I've played this game for months (on Macs & now
on Amiga) and I've only finished it VERY seldom!

Oh, if you have any comments, suggestions or bug(never!:)-reports about
Montana, you can contact me at the following addresses (use EMail if
possible):

     Mika "Just one more game of Montana!" Saastamoinen

     EMail:         mikasaas@polaris.cc.utu.fi
                    msaastamoine@finabo.abo.fi

     SnailMail:     Tallgreninkatu 6 P 89
                    20380 Turku
                    Finland

P.S. This version also has a couple of CHEATS!!! :) You can Cancel the 
     last move and Switch two cards, if you can find the appropriate
     keys! O:)

P.P.S. Thanks to H.Younes for "beta-testing" Montana for me. :)

         //
     \\ // Amiga - In an insane world it's the sanest choice!
      \X/
