Utilities and other files in this directory are:

insert:
	Inserts a bogus color value as the first palette entry and
	remaps colors.  You'll need this in case your image doesn't have
	color entry for transparent color.

merge:
	Merges images given in command line, one after another, vertically
	into a new image which is written to standard output.

order:
	Sorts image palette according to intensity (darkest first) and
	remaps color indeces accordingly.  You can use this to certify
	color order in grayscale images, or if you use black as the
	transparent color, to move it first where MORTAR expects it to
	be.

ppm24to8:
ppm8to24:
	Convert between P8M format used by Mortar (and W window system)
	and PPM, the Portable PixMap, format commonly used on unix.  The
	difference between formats is that PPM uses 8-bit RGB triplet
	pixels whereas P8M pixels are 8-bit indeces to a preceding 8-bit
	RGB triplet palette.

remap:
	Cycles image palette and color indeces forward by one.  If the
	(background) color intended for transparency isn't the first
	palette entry, you can use this to get it into right position.
	The above programs is handier for this though.

setcol:
	Sets color index 0 to black and color with the given index to 
	specified RGB triplet value.

squeeze:
	This can be used to squeeze character images (layed out into a
	grid) in font image a little closer together, therefore making
	the font file (and memory requirements) smaller.

sky.pov:
	POV-ray script for creating the default background sky image.

ground.pov:
	POV-ray script for creating the default background ground image.

cannon.ini, cannon.pov:
	POV-ray scripts for creating the player image frames.

shot.pov:
	POV-ray script for creating the cannon shot image.  This is
	normally rendered to such a small size that the resulting image
	needs manual editing before use.

config.def:
	Configuration file template.

Makefile:
	Compiles the above programs, runs them and POV-ray to create
	the images.  Installs images and configuration file to data
	directory.  With 16-64 color resolutions you should make the
	'install16' target, on monochrome and 8-bit resolutions the
	'install' target.


You also need 'font.gif' which you can get for example by viewing a
suitable font in 'xfd' (standard X11 utility) and then grabbing the
table, from space character to end, into a gif (you could use 'xv' or
ImageMagick 'display' programs for this).  The default font image is 24
pixel Lucida typewriter font coming with XFree86.

I used Gimp for changing the colors (image->RGB, filters->'color
exchange' (white to red)) and to blur the characters a little
(filters->'convolution matrix' (3x3 blur) twice).


Other utilities needed in creating the final pictures are:
	* POV-ray 3.x raytracer for creating the images.
	* 'ppmquant', 'giftopnm' and 'ppmtopgm' utilities from NetPBM.
	* 'cjpeg' and 'djpeg' utilities from Independed JPEG group's
	  JPEG library package.


	- Eero
