 G u i d e   t o   D u e n i x   1 . 2
---------------------------------------

Written and edited by Daniel Polansky

1) What's it all about
2) Using the game
3) Advanced options


                               
       What's it about         
       ---------------         

   From 2 to 6 players drive their worms on the
gameplan with the only goal: survive and kill the
others. As they ride, they leave the killing line
behind. As time passes, there is less and less space
on the plan and less and less players alive. When
there is only one player left, the round is fini-
shed. Every player being alive at the moment some of
the other players die gets the point.
   Because space would be cut into isolated areas
very soon, the lines players are drawing aren't con-
tinuous, but leave spaces. And to addition, speed of
players isn't constant, but depends on altitude
player is riding (brighter colour means higher alti-
tude).


                               
       Using the game          
       --------------          

   When the game starts, you face main screen with
six boxes for six players. Before you start to play,
at least two players must be selected. You can se-
lect player by pressing one of his driving keys
which are written in the page. By pressing space you
can start the game. When you press driving key more
times, you select computer and one more time cyborg.
   Cyborg works this way: when you press left or
right driving key, the worm turns as you press, but
if you don't, computer drives the worm.
   By pressing 0 to 7 you can set lives to players.
Try and see.
   When you press S, there shows a list of games to
choose from. The games differ in gameplan, speed and
other properties, which can be separatedly set in
advanced options. Take a note that if you dont like
picking nose in options, you don't have to, just
select one of the readymade games after pressing S
and see what it does.


                               
           Options             
           ------- 

  There are 5 option pages: main, settings,
gameplan, record 'n replay and user gameset. The
things you set in settings and gameplan are known as
configuration or game. In main page, you can save
current configuration, load it etc. When the game is
executed the configuration saved as default is taken.

   SETTINGS
   ~~~~~~~~
Here are lots of things to set:

DIRECTIONS:    this is in fact radius of rotation -
               the greater it is the slower is the
               turning.

SPEED JUMP:    this is steepness of the slopes on
               gameplan. 0 = no slopes at all,
               95 = really steep slopes, the worm
               riding in high altitude is almost not
               moving

SPACE LENGTH:  this is the length of the spaces
               coming in regular intervals.
               Setting this to 0 will drive spaces
               off.

LINE LENGTH:   this is the length of the line player
               draws before space comes

SPEEDING UP:   worms will speed up during the
               round

SPEEDING TIME: In case of speeding up, this is the
               time during which the final speed is
               reached.

FINAL SPEED:   this is the final speed that will be
               reached after speeding up. In case of
               not speeding up, this speed is
               lasting for the whole game.

SPACE KILL:    When the space kill is off and the
               worm is just drawing a space, he
               won't be killed by any worm's line.
               When it's on, worm is killed by
               worm's line anytime. Note that space
               kill doesn't affect killing at
               borders.

BOUNCING:      You can bounce from borders. 

TELEPORTING:   You'll be teleported at borders. 

WATERING:      Combined bouncing and teleporting.
               You bounce, when you drive at the
               border at low angle, teleport at
               high angle.

WATER ANGLE:   Boundary angle between bouncing and
               teleporting for watering.

MUSIC, SOUND FX:  needs no comment

TURBO:         Gives no limit to speed of the game.
               The speed is then limited by your
               computer's speed.

COMPUTURBO:    When all humans are dead and some
               computers or cyborgs still alive,
               game swithes itself to turbo.

CENTRAL BOX:   A barrier appears in the middle of
               the plan. It acts like borders.

CEN.BOX SIZE:  Size of the barrier.

ALWAYS TURNING: There is no way not to turn.

THIN LINE:     Worms draw thin line instead of bold

BODY CHANGE:   After some period of playing players
               suddenly exchange their bodies.
               No one will stay in his body. A while
               after this players are protected
               against death at line
               (but no at border).

BODY CHANGE LENGTH: Average time before next body
               changing. Actual times are genera-
               ted randomly round this number.

TEAM GAME:     Players play in teams. 4 or 6 teams
               must be selected, there are then 2 or
               3 pair teams. The pairs are taken
               from selected players from up to down.
               Score in teams is shared. The one of
               the team that is higher placed in the
               main page, has a great advantage: he
               can cross his teammate's line without
               being killed.

LONG GAME:     When game is long, rounds go on until
               some player reaches (p-1) times 10
               points. Otherwise the limit is
               (p-1) times 5 points. p = # players

SURPRISING START:  At the start of the gameround,
               players will see no flags and they
               worm they drive.

WIND:          Wind starts to blow turning you into
               its own direction. Going against wind
               is of course slower.

WIND STRENGTH: Needs no comment. Note that wind was
               added for bored superdrivers, not for
               poor mortal people.

PLAN SIZE:     When 2 or 3, plan is bigger than
               screen and scrollings is used.

COMPUDEATH:    When last human (non computer) is
               killed, all computers are immediately
               killed (why would anyone want to wait
               until computers kill each other).

ZOMBIES:       After player is killed, he becomes a
               zombie: his line gets spacy and he
               will draw until all players are
               killed. When zombie is "killed:, it
               remains zombie, but its spaces in
               line get bigger.



   GAMEPLAN
   ~~~~~~~~
   You can select one of the readymade plans in here
by pressing D or 1-6. By pressing Y and then L you
can load your own gameplan in Iff image format. This
picture can have up to 32 colours, but only 16 will
really be used. So ideal number of colours of your
picture is 16. In configuration, there will be
stored not your whole picture (it would be too
large), but only path to the picture, so if you want
to use your picture in configuration, don't delete
the picture file! It's also wise to put the picture
file into the folder where you store Duenix files so
that you know to what thing the picture belongs.


   RECORD 'N REPLAY
   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
   This option was designed to provide you a chance
for recording beautiful game rounds and replay them
for your friends to see.
   When you chose RECORD, your game rounds will be
recorded in memory. When you then face PRESS SPACE
writing, you can remember the recent round by
pressing R or save the recent round into ram: by
pressing S. Note that R means that no more rounds
will be recorded in the game - that is the way to
remember, while S allows you to recond every round.
   When you choose REPLAY, last round stored in me-
mory will be replayed (this you should do when you
remembered using R) while when you choose replay all
saved, all rounds stored in ram: will be replayed.
   If you make an assign "DuenRecord:" to any
folder, all records will be saved there instead in
ram:.

   USER GAMESET
   ~~~~~~~~~~~~
   This is a tool for creating your own gamesets
(gameset is a bunch of 20 configurations from which
you can pick one by pressing a single key). To
create gameset you need up to 20 configurations sto-
red in one folder and text file containing list of
these stored in the same folder. If you have this,
rest will be easily managed by user gameset page,
just try it.
