
                                     ESCAPE
                                     ------

                     Note. This game runs from Workbench.

WHAT IS IT?          Escape is a graphical adventure. Your character, Basil, has been
                     falsely accused and convicted of robbery. Your task is to help
                     him escape from prison.

WHAT DO I NEED?      An A1200, preferrably with hard drive. It will work quite well with
                     two floppy drives but with one drive the disk swapping is no fun
                     at all. Fast memory also helps. Floppy users must leave their
                     discs write-enable for saving the game with your game disk in DF0:
                     Hard drive users should copy all files including the Fonts drawer
                     and Savegame drawer to a single drawer anywhere on your hard
                     drive. If there isn't a 'Savegame' drawer, then you must make one.
                     Running from CD any disk will do. Just make a drawer as mentioned
                     below. Hard drive users should check that the 'Savegame' drawer
                     exists. If not, in either case:-
                     Just open the Game disk/drawer on Workbench - Go to the Menu select
                     Window then 'New drawer'. Back-delete 'Unnamed1' and write
                     'Savegame' then press return. Done. (there are lots of new Amiga
                     users about, you know)



NOTE                 When you play your first game, go into your room first (the door
                     next to you on startup). Have a nose round. Chat to Benny and
                     then go to see Mr. Big (Cell 1 (opposite)). After that go
                     where ever you wish.(just helps game play)

HOW DOES IT WORK?    Run the mouse over the screen and items etc. will be highlighted
                     at the bottom. From the main Hall just click the 'right' mouse
                     button on any door and your character will walk to that door and
                     enter the room.

CONTROLS             LEFT MOUSE BUTTON - This gives you information about objects in
                     rooms. use the left button first as there is a lot of information
                     available (not compulsory).
 
                     RIGHT BUTTON      - This tries to interact with objects eg. pick
                     up, use etc.

                     TEXT SPEED        - Use the '-' and '+' signs on the keyboard
                     (not while talking is in progress) to speed up or slow down the
                     text. You will be told what you are doing at the bottom of the
                     screen.

Note                 Keyboard controls will not work if the mouse pointer is over
                      an object etc. or out of limits of the main screen.
                      Just move the mouse.


MENU  F5             F5(function key) gives you a menu as follows:-
 
                     LOAD GAME. press 'L'  There are ten save game slots numbered
                      0 to 9. They will appear at the top of the screen.
                      Any highlighted number represents a saved game. Pressing a
                      highlighed number (on the keyboard) will load this saved game.
                      Load works from Main Hall only. Sorry.

                     SAVE GAME. press 'S'  This again brings up the 'save game slots'
                      Again, it shows you where games have already been saved. Pick
                      a nex slot or over-write an existing saved game.
                      Save works from anywhere.

                     RETURN.    press 'F5' Again the abort and return to game.

                     DELETE.    press 'Y'  to delete a saved game. To tidy up if you
                      wish. Careful now. (I chose the 'Y' key because it's not to close
                      to the other user keys).

                     QUIT.      press 'Q'  to quite the game. You must verify this with
                      'Y'es or 'N'o.

MUSIC                By pressing the 'M' key the music can be toggled on or off.
                      You can change the volume if you wish.
                      Hold down '<' key and the volume will decrease.
                      Hold down '>' key and the volume will increase.
                      (it starts off at full volume). The sound effect volume is not
                      changed.

PROBLEMS             The game needs about 1.5 mbs to run. I removed my accelerator
                      and after booting I was left with just over 900K (due to CD
                      software and all those Workbench startup files) System told me
                      I did not have enough memory to run the game, but it ran although
                      some graphics were a little suspect.

                     If you're running the game from hard drive and a requester at the
                      bottom of the screen asks you to change disks, this means you
                      have a file missing. Check that you have copied everything.

                     Otherwise, the game will run fine.

TECHNO.              This adventure was written over a period of four years on an
                      A1200 with 4 mbs of fast and FPU and finished on an 40MHz 040 with
                      FPU. Graphics drawn with DPaint IV. Text written on my own
                      text editor.

SHAREWARE            Please remember this game is Shareware and only £5. Try it, and if
                      you like it, please register. ( See docs ).

WHO?                 N.L. Crossfield, 18 Melrose Avenue, Worthing, Sussex, BN13 1NX.

                     Who?

                     Have fun.
