-------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------- H A N G E R   1 8 ---------------------------
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
------------------------ By Alastair Murray 1995 ------------------------
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

                               To Contact Me
                               -------------
                   E-Mail: pmymagm@pmn1.maths.nott.ac.uk
                           or: agm@cs.nott.ac.uk
                 Web-Page: http://www.cs.nott.ac.uk/~agm/

                   PLEASE contact me if you download it.
     I know it's not super (my newer stuff is much better) but if you
                     get into it, it's very enjoyable.


                System Requirements and other details
                -------------------------------------
Hanger 18 requires two megabytes of chip memory to run. It was designed to
run on the A1200. The faster the better. To play the game you will need a
mouse and a joystick. If graphical glitches occur during the game, it may
be because of lack of memory. Disconnect all extra disk drives and printers
etc. and run the game again.
	To play on a hard drive, use the INSTALL program on disk one.
Players with only two megabytes of memory may have problems with lack
of memory when playing from hard disk.

Hanger 18 was created on an Amiga 1200 with two megabytes of RAM (recently
expanded to six) connected to a good old Amiga 500 using ParNET so
that my 500's 100 Megabyte hard disk could be used with the 1200.
	I entirely used the Amiga Format AMOS Professional coverdisk
to produce the game (although i'd already written the scrolling system on
the original AMOS). I used Deluxe Paint III, IV and Brilliance to produce
the dodgy graphics. I also used Imagine 2.0 given away on Amiga Format to
produce the ray traced animations.

           - - - - - = = = T H E   G A M E = = = - - - - -

                            Game Controls
                            -------------

> The joystick is used to control the movement of your man
> To go inside a building when you are outside, keep hold of up against the
  door.
> To leave a building hold down against it's door.
> Ladders can be climbed by pushing up or down against one.
> Some ladders will go onto the roof of a building, to go back down it, hold
  down on the joystick while on the ladder.
> Teleporters can be entered in the same way that you enter a door from the
  outside.
> While on a roof, keeping hold of down will allow you to drop of the edge
  of a building.
> When falling a long distance, be sure to either use your parachute (by
  pressing SPACE BAR) or activate your grappling hook (details are covered
  later), this method should only be used if you judge that you are not going
  to hit the ground before the hook reaches the roof.
> There are many different types of vehicles in HANGER 18, as long as they
  are not occupied by the enemy, you can use them by pressing space while
  touching the vehicle.
> To leave a vehicle, space should be pressed again. Be warned that if the
  vehicle is in flight, you will bail out and the vehicle will crash land so
  be prepared to use your parachute.
> The grappling hook is a very important part of the game. Using it should
  be practised where there is no danger rather than learning to save your
  life.
> To climb up a building from the outside, stand against the edge of it's
  wall and press FIRE on the joystick, this will activate your hook upwards.
  Once it has fixed on the roof, you may push up or down to move higher and
  lower.
> To climb down a building while on it's roof, stand at the edge of it
  (ensuring that you don't fall off) and press FIRE on the joystick. Your
  hook will be activated downwards and will fix to the ground. You can then
  push down to reach the ground.
> Note that you can use weapons while on the grappling hooks rope.
> Inside a building the grappling hook can only be used upwards but you can
  mover down on it if there is room. This is useful for falling of the edge
  of a platform and then firing off your hook. When it reaches something to
  hook on to, it will halt your descent and you can then slowly lower
  yourself to the ground.
> The grappling hook is also used to get past either holes in platforms or
  raised platforms that are to high to cross. Practise is needed to perfect
  these operations.
> Remember that your grappling hook will not activate if there is nothing
  for it to hook on to.
> At the bottom of the screen is an information panel showing your current
  score, your selected weapon and the amount of ammo the weapon has.
> To select a new weapon you can either click on the weapons name or use
  the function keys (F1 - F9).
> Some vehicles have their own weapons which are automatically selected
  when you enter them.
> There are red bars at either end of the control panel. The one on the
  left shows the amount of energy that you have. Once this bar goes down to
  nothing you will die. The bar on the right is only shown when you are in a
  vehicle as it shows the amount of damage it can take before blowing up. You
  are advised to bail out of a vehicle before it explodes.
> The size of the playing screen can be adjusted using the + and - keys.
  This is so that standard A1200's can run at a reasonable speed. If you wish
  to travel a long distance in a quick time, it is useful to change to a
  smaller screen. During battles however, the screen should not be too small
  otherwise you may be shot by enemys that you can't see.
> The mouse pointer controls where you want to aim and shoot.
> You cannot walk at the same time as shooting.
> To shoot at something, point the mouse pointer at it and press the left
  mouse button.
> If the weapon is not automatic (eg Shotguns, pistols etc.) you will need
  to release the button before firing again.
> If you are not sure what an object is, information can be gained about
  relevant objects by holding the right mouse button while the pointer is on
  it.
> A level can be abandoned by pressing escape.
> Pressing T will allow you to talk to any people that you can see. You
  will be given a choice of who to talk to and then what to say to them. They
  will give suitable replys.
> On some levels, you will have friends who are on your side. Some of these
  people are willing to follow you to help. These are valuable allies if they
  have a weapon.
> It is a good idea to sometimes leave weapons for a friend to pick up. Two
  guns are better than one.
> If you wish to pick up a weapon, ammo or a medical kit. Press RETURN
  while touching it.
> You can try to persaude friends to either come with you or leave you
  alone by talking to them. Press right mouse button on them to find out
  their names so that you know who to talk to.

        Some Objects that may be encountered during the game.
        -----------------------------------------------------

                                People
                                ------

       Various types of people will undoubtably be encountered during
the game. For example in the first level, there are escaping prisoners
who will help you, and the Prison Officers who will kill you once they
discover that you have escaped. The second level contains a civilian,
in this case a sheep herder.
	Every person in HANGER 18 has their own personality to
different extends (depending on their importance in the game). Every
man, and also many machines, have three different ratings to govern
how tough they are in a fight. These are Speed, Aggression and
Perception. Speed is obvious, Aggression may dictate, for examples,
how often that person will fire upon an enemy. Perception governs how
accurate their shots are and how likely they are to spot an enemy from
distance. All people can have different levels of energy, indicating
how many shots they can take before dieing.
	The people are reasonably intelligent. An enemy who is chasing
you or a friend following you will follow you in or out of a building
as long as they see you enter/leave it. Most civilians are alarmed by
shooting and especially if it is them who is shot.
	It is important to learn what the different weapons look like
when being held by an enemy. For example, a man with a missile
launcher is much more dangerous than a man with a pistol. Be aware of
enemys who appear to have no weapons, but actually have land mines or
grenades.
	If an agressive person (either with or against you) comes
across a gun that they consider to be better than the one that they
own, they will pick it up.
	You may even come across suicide tactics to kill you. Be aware
of suiciding enemy hang-gliding bombers.

                               Weapons
                               -------

Pistol : A simple single shot weapon, you must be accurate with it.
Shotgun : A more powerful single shot weapon. Good for making alot of
	  noise and very popular with many people.
Land Mines : Dropped on the ground so that when an enemy steps on
	     them, they explode. To ensure death, place many together so as
	     to cause a chain reaction.
Grenades : To aim these, point the mouse where you want the grenade to
	   start its descent.
Laser : Very powerful but you must be accurate. Capable of
	incinerating enemys with one shot.
Flamer : A simple gas based, flamethrower, short range and uses up gas
	 fast but good for close combat outside. If used inside, you
	 must be careful of burning up the building.
Uzi Machine Gun : Automatic weapon, where accuracy isn't required to
		  be perfect. Once you have your target, they don't stand
		  a chance.
Bazooka : Excellent explosion weapon. Doesn't start fires easily.
Missile Launcher : More powerful explosion than with the bazooka but
		   the the missile must first reach it's target. Good for 
		   starting fires.

If you encounter a weapon that you wish to take (identify its type by
pressing right mouse button on it) then press RETURN while touching
it. The same applies to ammo.

                               Vehicles
                               --------

There are several types of vehicles to be found in the world of HANGER
18. Most can be used by either you or the enemy.

Helicopter:
	   Now outdated by the hovercopter but is still used
frequently on Earth due to it's relative cheapness and it's
manoeuvrability. Some are equiped with bombs.

Hovercopter:
	    Works in the same way as a helicopter, but is cabable of
low orbit space flight. Often used as a landing craft from a
mothership.

Hoverbike:
	  Advanced form of the motorbike. Extremely fast but offers
little protection to the user. It has no weapons and it's only use in
combat would be to rush past some nasty looking enemies.

Bulldozer:
	  For simple raw power the bulldozer has never been updated in
over 100 years. Used for construction but has found a use by some as
an armoured vehicle capable of crushing enemies under it's wheels.

Jet Plane:
	  Extremely fast but not built for war. One use has been for
dropping parachutists.

Tank:
     Very well armoured but quite slow. Equiped with missiles to take
out armoured enemies. Inexperienced tank drivers often make the
mistake of firing at point blank range, therefore damaging their own
vehicle.

Walker:
       A large powerful vehicle, designed to install fear into the
enemy. Equiped with missiles, although stepping on most targets is
enough.
