   The up and down arrow buttons next to Rooms, Room Min, Room Max, Dungeon
Width and Dungeon Height, increment and decrement the values displayed next to
them. A left click on one of the arrows will change the value by 1 and clicking
with the right mouse button will change the value by 5.

Rooms:

   This sets the number of rooms generated when you select the Build button.
Minimum is 2 and maximum is 42. Please note that when you set the number of
rooms above 23 or so, the generator may not be able to construct the dungeon.
It tries five times and if unsuccessful will exit back to the front panel. If
you choose above 33 rooms or so, set the Room Max value to 3 or 2. Even then
you may not get a successful build. Experiment and try the build several times.
If it still doesn't work, you need to adjust Room Min, Room Max, and perhaps
the overall dimensions of the map.

Room Min:

   Min is 2 and max is 5. This sets the smallest size in units a room can be on
one of its sides. A unit is shown by the scale dots which is explained further
on.

Room Max:

   Min is 2 and max is 20. This sets the largest size in units a room can be on
one side. Room Max cannot be less than Room Min. Setting this value to above 8
or 9 would in all likelihood severely limit the number of rooms that could be
generated.

Dungeon Width:

   Min is 5 and max is 45. Sets the number of units wide the dungeon is.

Dungeon Height:

   Min is 5 and max is 33. Sets the number of units high.

Scale:

   This refers to the scale dots drawn on the map. Scale dots can represent any
figure you like. 10 feet, 5 feet, etc. Click anywhere on the button to cycle
through the choices. Scale All will draw dots on the entire map whether there
are dungeon graphics in the area or not. Scale Dungeon draws dots only in the
areas that are part of the dungeon itself. Scale Off turns the scale dots off
completely. The easiest way to explain this is to select the Build button on
the panel. Once it is done generating the dungeon, go to the editor. Press the
F2 key for Scale All, F3 for Scale Dungeon, and F4 for Scale Off.

Build:

   Build a random dungeon using the values entered in the fields explained
above. If it can't fit all the rooms with the numbers you have entered, it will
exit back to the front panel. If it is successful, the dungeon will be drawn in
three passes. Once completed, the picture will pause for about 5 seconds to
allow you a quick look to see if it is something you want to go on and edit.
Then the front panel will pop back up.

Editor:

   Go to the editing screen to work on a dungeon. If you selected Build before
the Editor, the generated dungeon will be drawn on the edit screen.


Quit:

   Exit the program. If you have not saved your work you will be asked to
confirm.
