   With the editor screen you can alter, add to, or erase parts of a dungeon
generated with the Build function from the front panel or an on going project
you have created from scratch.
   Once you have chosen your brush from the edit panel, place the mouse pointer
over the screen and click the left button. An image of the brush will be drawn
on the screen. You can also hold the left mouse button down and paint a
continuous series of the image by dragging it across the screen.
   An explanation is needed here in order to avoid unwanted effects. Each time
you paint one of the structural type brushes (wall, hallway, corner, hallcap)
it cancels any previous definitions for that square. To see this, you can pick
several of those brushes and stamp them down one on top of the other. After
doing that, refresh the screen from the menu or type a Ctrl R. When the map is
redrawn the last image you placed on the square is the one to show up there.
This does not apply to the other images such as doors, stairs, pits, etc. But
putting a set of stairs on top of a pit is going to look pretty funky anyway.
   Here are a couple of examples to show the methodology. Draw two hallways
that run parallel to one another and share a common wall. (Example 1) Each of
those dungeon squares is defined as a hallway and will be drawn as such. So at
the moment you have two ten foot (or whatever) wide hallways running side by
side. But you want it to be a twenty foot wide hallway. Click on the first
wall image on the brush panel. The wall will be positioned to the "north" of
the mouse pointer. Go to the upper hallway and position the mouse pointer
inside the hall at one end of it. Hold the left mouse button down and drag the
pointer along the length of the hall. If you do a refresh now, it still looks
like it is drawing two parallel halls. Now press the down cursor key and the
brush image flips to the south of the pointer. Move the pointer to the lower
hall and repeat the process you did with the upper hallway. Refresh the screen
and you have a twenty foot wide passage. This method comes in handy for
altering randomly generated dungeons. If your drawing the hall from scratch
and want it more than one unit wide just use a wall brush.
   Rooms created with the Build button are set up so that all the graphics
definitions are contained on the inside of the room with the exception of
doorways. The square containing the door definition will be in the hallway
outside the room.

(Example 2)
   Call up the editor and set Scale Dots to All.  Build a 3 X 3 room by setting
up the four corners first. Then draw the sides using the wall brushes and make
sure the squares you click on are all inside the room. Press the F3 key to
change the Scale Dot setting to Dungeon. You will notice that the middle square
of the room is blank. If you want to scale it, click on the eraser brush with
the left mouse button. Now click on the blank square and a dot will show up.
Click on the east/west hall brush and put a hall outside the room running along
the north wall touching it (i.e. the south wall of the hall is the north wall
of the room). In order to delete this hallway, click the eraser brush with the
right mouse button. Hold the left mouse button down and drag the eraser over
the hallway. The top of the room appears to be gone but if you do a screen
refresh it is still there.
   I hope these two examples give you enough information on how to go about
altering, creating and deleting dungeon elements with the editor.
