deliver <what> <sectors> {<threshold>} {<sector>}
    after playing Empire for a while, you will notice that moving various
    supplies from sector to sector on a regular basis takes up too much
    time and BTU's. Automatic deliveries are the cure for this problem. Any
    of civilians, military, shells, guns, planes, iron ore and gold bars
    can be automatically delivered from a given sector to any neighbouring
    sector (orthogonal or diagonal). The 'deliver' command is used to set
    up and query delivery settings. Delivery directions will also show up
    on the 'census' listing. In its simplest form, a delivery is specified
    as in this example:

	deliver c 0,0 (50) -1,0

    This specifies that whenever sector 0,0 is updated, and it contains
    more than 50 civilians, the excess civilians should be moved to sector
    -1,0 (subject to the player owning sector -1,0 and sector 0,0 having
    enough mobility). The threshold (50) can be omitted, in which case a
    threshold of 0 is used. A more complex example:

	deliver o -2:0,-3:-1 (20)

    Here, Empire will prompt for each owned sector in the specified region,
    as to where to deliver ore to. Again, the threshold can be omitted.
    Also, on the individual replies to the prompts, the destination sector
    can be followed by a threshold in parentheses which will be used for
    that particular delivery. If the form

	deliver b -10:10,-10:10 +50

    is used, then the thresholds for, in this case, gold bars, will be
    changed without changing any delivery destinations. The final form:

	deliver s -5:5,-2:7 -

    will simply print out the delivery destinations and thresholds for each
    sector in the region which has a delivery set up.

    Deliveries are performed whenever sectors are updated. A message of the
    form "delivery walkout between r,c & r,c" indicates that a sector was
    trying to deliver to a sector you don't own.
Doc: intro, sectors, economics
Help: route, census, update, syntax
