Command Syntax

All commands will prompt for their needed arguments, so if you are unsure
of how to use one, just give it with no arguments to get prompts.

Some syntactic elements:

    <country> - a country name (in full, case significant) or number.

    <sector> - a sector specified as row,column (e.g. 4,-7)

    <sectors> - a region given as toprow:bottomrow,leftcolumn:rightcolumn.
	This specifies a rectangle of sectors. For most commands, only the
	sectors that you own will be affected. E.g.

	    map -5:5,-5:6

	will map the region around your capital. Eg.

	    designate -3,1:5 f
	
	will designate a row of 5 sectors into fortresses. Using the
	'realm' command, you can set up 6 rectangular regions which you can
	refer to with an abbreviated form. E.g. if you have entered:

	    realm 3 -8:8,2:5

	then the two commands

	    map #3
	    map -8:8,2:5

	are equivalent. As a further special case, realm 0 can be referred
	to as just '#'. You can follow a rectangle specification with a
	condition, which will reduce the command to operating on only those
	sectors which match the condition. The condition consists of a
	series of comparisons, using the operators:

	    < - term on left is less than term on right
	    > - term on left is greater than term on right
	    = - term on left is equal to term on right
	    # - term on left is not equal to term on right

	The conditions are separated by '&', implying that all conditions
	must be met in order for that sector to be selected for the
	command. Note that there must be no spaces anywhere in the entire
	<sectors> specification. The terms compared can be simple numbers
	or any unambiguous abbreviation of one of:

	    designation - the designation character of the sector
		(special case - other value can be a single character)
	    efficiency - the sector's efficiency
	    mobility - the sector's mobility
	    minerals - richness of iron deposit in sector
	    gold - richness of gold deposit in sector
	    production - production units in sector
	    contracted - 1 if sector is contracted, 0 if not
	    defended - 1 if sector defended, 0 if not
	    checkpoint - the checkpoint code for the sector
	    owner - the number of the owning country - only for deitys
	    civilians - number of civilians in the sector
	    military - number of military in sector
	    shells - number of shells in sector
	    guns - the number of guns in the sector
	    planes - number of planes in sector
	    ore - number of tons of iron ore in sector
	    bars - the number of gold bars in the sector

	E.g.

	    des -10:10,12?designation=-&minerals>50&civ>99 m

	will designate all wildernesses in the region which have a mineral
	sample larger than 50 and more than 99 civilians as a mine. As a
	special case, a '/' followed by a designation code can be used as a
	condition to select all sectors of that designation. E.g.

	    des #2/- +

	will turn all wildernesses in realm 2 into highways.

    <ship> - the number of a ship

    <fleet> - a fleet letter (a-z, A-Z, or * for the default fleet)

    <ships> - a designation of a group of ships. Can be a fleet letter, a
	<sectors> range or a list of ship numbers separated by '/'s. Any
	of the forms can be followed by a condition to be applied to the
	ships, just like the conditions can be applied to sectors. The
	values now refer to the ship, however, and are:

	    civilians, military, shells, guns, planes, ore, bars,
	    designation (ship type), efficiency, mobility, owner

It is often desireable to interrupt the actions or output of commands which
process several sectors or ships. This can be done on the Amiga by typing
a control-C. It can be done when connected over a serial port by typing a
control-C, a DEL or by sending a BREAK. The computation done by the 'power'
command can also be stopped this way.
