Short:    New text based zombie RPG with GFX & SFX
Author:   Gareth Murfin (gazy@globalnet.co.uk)
Uploader: Gareth Murfin (gazy@globalnet.co.uk)
Type:     Game/Role


  The Story...
  ------------

                           .....DAWN OF.............
                           ..........THE DEADER....®

  /\  national emergency grips the country. Corpses of the recently-dead are
 /--\ returning to life and attacking  the living, devouring  their victims.
 In the big cities people panic and confusion reigns.

 One  lone  survivor  decides that they must escape, somebody  must survive!
 You are that survivor....

 Armed  only with your wits and  the fear of the  flesh eating zombies which
 will eat you  alive you must survive  in this crazed  bedlam  where zombies
 stagger up and down escalators, stare  with dulled facination at department
 store dummies wearing fur coats and try to eat perfume bottles.

 You have managed to pilot a helicopter to an out of town mall in Pittsburg.
 Sustained  by the last word  in supplies and  armed with  weapons  from the
 sporting  goods  store you must  escape from  this terrifying tomb of death
 which you unknowingly entered without any option of escape.

 Can you escape the clutches of the semi decayed zombies which were once like
 you, striving  to survive  in the  worst scenerio of all, being  stuck in  a
 huge shopping mall surrounding by blood stained flesh eating zombies.

 Can you escape from the mall in this epic tribute to Romero's films, Dawn of
 the deader....


 Brief Intro!
 ------------

 This is a game based on Dawn Of The Dead, it is a nice text rpg like the old
 ones that used to be so popular on the spectrum. This  RPG also encorperates
 lots of music and graphics to make it more atmospheric.
 It  is quite a  hard game and  you will  need to use  trial and error to  be
 successful. I recommend you draw of map as you go along to make things a lot
 easier,I was going to include one but I thought this would make it too easy!

 It should work perfectly anyway from your harddrive as along as  you extract
 it and then play it by clicking on the icon. If you  have any problems  then
 please feel free to eMail me on gazy@globalnet.co.uk  or if you just want to
 make a suggestion or report a bugfix. I would also like to hear from  you if
 you have completed it or find it too hard/easy.

 This game was created on an  A1200Tg 040/25/25 + MMU + 18Meg RAM & 2xCD.  It
 should  however work on any AGA machine with an 020 and 2meg RAM  (dont hold
 me to this though!). One of  the more interesting points about this RPG from
 a programmers point of view is that it was made entirely in Arexx  (with DOS
 commands too). The reason for this is that  I wanted to show how  good Arexx
 is and just what can be  achieved using it. I think  from now on most of  my
 work  (including the sequel to this RPG)  will be coded in  BlitzBasic v2.1.
 I believe Blitz  is a very good  language and I have  already produced a few
 cool  things  which  have actually  been  published  by companies  and  also
 won 'software of the month'!

 I created this game with 8 things in mind :-

 1. I would enter it for Amiga Format Readers Games section
 2. I would enter it for the CU Amiga Coding Competition
 3. I would show how good Arexx is
 4. I would promote Dawn of the dead
 5. I would upload it to AmiNet
 6. I would use it to put on my homepage for free Alpha Software downloads
 7. I would make my first text/Gfx/Sfx Rpg!
 8. It would be fun!

 My love of zombies is expressed in the Dawn of the Dead Website on :-

 Http://www.users.globalnet.co.uk/~gazy/dawn.htm

 Also By the Author
 ------------------

 Right then, install this and then let me know what you think via email
 (gazy@globalnet.co.uk) Also look out on AmiNet for my other creations
 which are :-

 Dwarfx24fix.lha - The Ultimate AmIRC enhancement package
 Theme040.lha    - An 040 patch for ThemePark
 ZombieFest.lha  - A small Zombie Music and Gfx demo
 Dwarfdemo.lha   - A small Music and Gfx demo with nice scrolling text
 JoyMouse.lha    - Mouse emulator for CD³² pad
 Zippyxdemo      - GFX & SFX MegaDemo
 Hoppyxdemo      - GFX & SFX MegaDemo
 Carnlevels      - Replacement levels for Carnage


 Other Cool Utilities Ive made in Blitz Include :-

 AmiClock10a.lha    - A nice Blitz Clock with date
 AmiGreet10a.lha    - Greets you on BootUp
 AmiBlank10a.lha    - Funky ScreenSaver!
 AmiTip10a.lha      - Gives you a Tip every day of the year!

 At the moment I have coded in BlitzBasic, Arexx, Dos and Reality, I hope to learn
 C++ in the future but right now Im working on a game in BlitzBasic, let me know if
 you want to help or you just want details...


 Gaz (Alpha Software)                            

 Email - gazy@globalnet.co.uk
 URL   - http://www.users.globalnet.co.uk/~gazy/  (Alpha Software URL)
      _
  _  //
  \\// Amiga Makes it possible....®
   \/

