                                 EMPIRE DOCS

	COMMANDS AND ORDERS

    All EMPIRE commands and unit orders can be executed from the pull-down
menus.  Commands apply to the game functions, like save, center screen,
survey mode, etc.  Orders apply to combat units, e.g. sentry, move, unload
ship, etc.  To execute a command or give an order, use the right mouse
button, and while holding the right button, move the pointer to the desired
menu item and release the button.  As you move the arrow down the menu,
commands/orders that you can execute will change to reverse video.  All
command menus are shown below.


	Project         Reports       Orders      Commands     Other

	New Game	World Map     Go Home     Survey Mode  Sound
	Load   		Status        Go Direct   Survery Mode Delay
	Save	 	Combat Report Go Random   Group Survey Commanders
	Save As		Info          Move To     Wait         View
	Exit Game       Ship Report   Patrol To   Flight Paths
	Map Editor      Set Product   Escort Ship Activate
	Quit		Product Map   Sentry      Center Screen
				      Clear Orders
				      Load Ship
				      Unload Ship
				      Skip Move


	Commands and orders can be executed from the keyboard.  The keys
are shown to the right of the command/order in its menu.  These keystrokes
are given in the individual command descriptions.



	COMMAND DESCRIPTIONS

Command:	About Empire...

Menu:		Project			Keystroke:  [ALT][E]

Executing this command displays the EMPIRE copyright notice and version
number.  To return to the game, move the cursor arrow to the EMPIRE logo
and click the left mouse button.


Command:	Activate

Menu:		Commands		Keystroke:  [A]

This command allows you to make any friendly unit the active move unit.  It
is available only in SURVEY MODE.  If the command is given while the survey
cursor is over a unit WHICH STILL HAS MOVES FOR THE CURRENT TURN, its
orders will immediatley be cleared, and the game will revert to MOVE MODE
with that unit the current active move unit.  The purpose of the command is
to allow you to move a specific unit without having to cycle through all of
the other units.


Command:	Center Screen

Menu:		Commands		Keystroke:  [C]

This command centers the screen about the current cursor position as much
as possible.  To center the screen on a combat unit, press [C] when
prompted to move the unit.  You can also enter SURVEY MODE, place the
cursor over any square, click the left mouse button, and press [C] to
center the map.

Executing this command does not affect moving the unit, nor any other
command or order you can give the comabt unit.


Command:	Clear Orders

Menu:		Orders			Keystroke:  [O]

This order cancels any order given previously to the unit.  This order is
useful in changing order, or removing a unit from Sentry Duty.  If given
while in SURVEY MODE with the cursor on a city, all units in the city will
have their orders cleared.


Command:	Escort Ship

Menu:		Orders			Keystroke:  [E]

This order tells the current ship to escort another ship of your choosing. 
After choosing ESCORT SHIP, you may press the left mouse button on the ship
to be escorted, or you can move the line to the ship to be escorted and
then select ESCORT SHIP again.


Command:	Exit Game

Menu:		Project			Keystroke:  [Control][E]

This command allows you to exit the current game without leaving EMPIRE. 
You will be returned to the main EMPIRE Desktop where you can start a new
game, get information, or quit.

If the current game has developed far enough, the results will be recorded
in the Commander Log.  If you resume the game later (i.e., you saved it
first), the new results will be overwritten with the new results in the
commanders log.


Command:	Flight Path

Menu:		Commands		Keystroke:  [F]

This command sets a flight path from one city to another.  Once designated,
any fighter landing or created in a city with a flight path will
automatically accept orders to fly to the destination city of the flight
path.  You can only assign flight paths between your cities.

Flight paths appear as bold white lines pointing to the destination city of
the path.  Upon executing this command, you will enter Mark Flight Path 
(Mark FIPth) mode and all existing flight paths will appear on your screen.

When the blinking cursor is on the city you want the flight path to start
from, press [F] or use the menu.  Then designate the destination city.  If
you use the keyboard direction keys to select a destination city, then you
must execute the command again to mark the destination city.  To remove or
cancel a flight path, just target a non-city square after selecting the
Flight Paths command on the city where the flight path starts.

Flight Paths are very useful when cities are producing fighters far from
the battle front; the fighters can be "Chained" from the city to the front
without having to give them orders every turn.  You cannot set a flight
path that will exceed a fighter's fuel supply (20 spaces).


Order:		Go Direction

Menu:		Orders			Keystroke:  [D]

This order gives the unit orders to move in a specified direction.  After
executing this order, a direction cursor will appear over the unit.  Press
either the up, down, right, or left arrow key on your keyboard, click one
of the eight squares around the unit in the direction you want to go, or
use the numeric keypad to specify the direction.  Once moving, the unit
will temporarily wake up if its route is blocked or it moves next to an
enemy unit or city.

When a fighter is ten spaces out, it will temporarily wake up to give you a
chance to return it to a city or aircraft carrier for refueling.  The GO
HOME command comes in handy here.


Order:		Go Home

Menu:		Orders			Keystroke:  [H]

This order applies to fighters and ships only.  This order gives the
current unit or group the order to go to the nearest city or aircraft
carrier.  Fighters will not move to a city out of range, and will follow an
aircraft carrier.


Order:		Go Random

Menu:		Orders			Keystroke:  [R]

This order commands the unit to move in a random pattern.  The unit will
temporarily wake up if it moves next to an enemy unit or city.  You cannot
give this order to a fighter.

The unit will move at random subject to the following conditions:

1.  The unit will not do anything that may cause it to be destroyed.
2.  If the enemy unit is an army, it will board a partially or unloaded
troop transport.


Command:	Group Survey

Menu:		Commands		Keystroke:  [G]

This command allows you to select a block of cambat units to give a single
order or command to at the same time.  You designate the units by forming a
box around them.  Then select the order or command.

When you execute this command, the box will appear around the unit
currently under the cursor.  The box can be enlarged or shortened.

One excellent use of this command is loading a troop transport.  After
selecting a group of armies, you can issue a single Move To order to all of
the armies in the group, sending them to a troop transport.


Command:	Info(rmation)

Menu:		Reports			Keystroke:  [Alt][I]

This command gives information on the designated unit.  

If you move one of your fighters next to an enemy city, it will perform a
photo recon.  You will then know the production of that enemy city.


Command:	Load

Menu:		Project			Keystroke:  [Control][L]

This allows you to resume a saved game.  A file selector box will appear,
allowing you to pick the file to load.


Command:	Load Ship

Menu:		Orders			Keystroke:  [L]

This order commands the designated troop transport or aircraft carrier to
go on sentry duty until fully loaded with armies or fighters.  Whenever an
army is next to the carrier or transport, it will load it.  When the ship
is fully loaded, it will wake up and allow you to give it orders.


Command:	Map Editor

Menu:		Project			Keystroke:  [M]

This command allows you to build a world of your own, edit an existing
world, or let the computer generate a new world in addition to the maps on
your disk.


Command:	Move Mode

Menu:		Orders			Keystroke:  [M]

This command will remove you from the current mode, discarding any orders
you are in the progress of entering, and set you in move mode for the next
combat unit to be moved.


Command:	Move To

Menu:		Orders			Keystroke:  [T]

This order commands the current unit to move to a designated target
square.  The unit will temporarily wake up if it moves next to an enemy
unit or city, or is blocked from from reaching its destination.


Order:		Patrol To

Menu:		Orders			Keystroke:  [P]

This order commands the unit to repeatedly patrol between its current
location and the designated target square, for as long as the order is in
effect.  When the order is executed, all current patrol areas will be shown
with a bold line.


Command:	Production Map

Menu:		Reports			Keystroke:  [Alt][X]

This will display the production map of each of your cities, and allow you
to select a city, and change its current mode of production.

You must return to move mode to continue play.


Command:	Quit

Menu:		Project			Keystroke:  [Control][Q]

Quits the current game and exits EMPIRE.  If you are currently playing a
game, the game results will be recorded in the commanders log.


Command:	Save

Menu:		Project			Keystroke:  [Control][S]

This command allows you to save the current game.  If you have previously
saved or loaded a game, the save will use the same filename.


Command:	Save As

Menu:		Project			Keystroke:  [Control][S]

This command is identical to save, except that it allows you to enter a
filename.  DO NOT ADD AN EXTENSION TO THE FILENAME!  EMPIRE will add the
extension ".EMP" to the file for you.


Order:		Sentry

Menu:		Orders			Keystroke:  [S]

This order commands the designated unit to go on sentry duty.  The unit
will not move, nor will you be asked to give it an order until the unit is
ordered off sentry duty or wakes up due to an enemy unit moving next to
them.  Fighters cannot be placed on sentry duty unless they are on an
aircraft carrier or in a city.

To remove a unit from sentry duty, you must enter either survey or group
survey mode and execute a Clear Orders over the unit.


Command:	Set Production

Menu:		Reports			Keystroke:  [X]

This command displays the current production of a city and allows you to
change the production demands.  The numbers indicate the amount of time to
make the 1st unit, and units after that respectivley.


Command:	Ship Report

Menu:		Reports			Keystroke:  [Alt][H]

This command will give you a list of your ships, their names, current
positions, and damage.


Command:	Skip Move

Menu:		Other			Keystroke:  [Space]

Pressing the [Space] bar tells the unit not to move this turn.  You will
not be asked to give the unit another command until the next turn.


Command:	Sound

Menu:		Other			Keystroke:  [Alt][O]

This command toggles sound on and off.


Command:	Status

Menu:		Reports			Keystroke:  [Alt][S]

This command opens a status window presenting you with a war report.  This
report gives you the number of cities you have captured and their
production demands.  It also gives other information.


Command:	Survey Mode

Menu:		Commands		Keystroke:  [V]

This command takes you out of your current mode, and allow you to move a
cursor around the world, giving commands and orders to all of your units.


Order:		Unload Ship

Menu:		Orders			Keystroke:  [U]

This order wakes up all armies or fighters on the ship, and tells them to
prepare to unload.  You will then be asked to give each fighter or army a
command.


Command:	View

Menu:		Other			Keystroke:  [Alt][V]

Using this command, you can change your "view" of the world.  View allows
you to see the whole world or see the world as one of your opponents.  This
command is only active during demos or at the end of a game.


Command:	Wait

Menu:		Commands		Keystroke:  [W]

This command tells your computer that you want to wait before giving the
combat unit an order this turn.  After all other units have asked for an
order, you will return to this unit for an order.


Command:	World Map

Menu:		Reports			Keystroke:  [Alt][W]

This command will open a window showing you the entire world as you
currently know it.





