If you try the game, please give some sort of feedback. "Works fine"
are just two words, but still better than nothing -:) Bug reports,
likes and dislikes are welcome, too.

Currently, the best ways to contact me are
a) EMail: stieber@informatik.tu-muenchen.de
b) I'm usually logged into my crossfire server whenever I'm "online",
   so you can try to catch me there: telnet to
   sunbroy53.informatik.tu-muenchen.de, port 13325 (or 13326 --- I should
   really change that port). If you happen to see Icho or Gandhi there ---
   that's me -:) If I don't respond within a few seconds, I'm probably not
   looking at the window -:(

Create a link from "NetHack Data/Guidebook.guide" to whereever you
installed the "Docs/Guidebook.guide" file.

Create a nethack.info icon, and set your options as tooltypes.  Use
ON/OFF/YES/NO for boolean values, such as

  WIZARD=ON
  CONFIRM=OFF

Use normal strings for compound options, such as

  PICKUP-TYPES=$
  WINDOWTYPE=tty

Underscores '_' in option names have been replaced with hyphens '-'.

Don't forget to report all problems, ideas and suggestions.
Don't forget to read the news file.

Hm.. some special tooltypes are:
REALNAME to specify the realname
WIZARD=ON/OFF
EXPLORE=ON/OFF
NAME=player name
CLASS=player class
WINDOWTYPE=windowtype (tty or amimui, default is amimui)

If a REALNAME tooltype is not specified, the game checks the
environment variables REALNAME, USERNAME and USER (in that order).
If it doesn't find a realname, it uses a generic name.

The SOUNDEFFECTS option turns on sample playing when you use
instruments (harps, flutes, horns etc.). Sample playing is done
asynchronously.

Note that there is NO recover utility for this port of nethack ---
it is integrated into the main game. To continue a crashed game,
just log in as usual.

Don't forget that playing nethack is a risk. Playing a beta nethack is
dangerous.

Since this port is NOT an official nethack port (not yet, hopefully),
DO NOT SEND BUG REPORTS TO THE DEVTEAM! Send them to me.

Christian

stieber@informatik.tu-muenchen.de
