The program and all other files here are available under the GPL
license, version 3 (see the file "COPYING" for details). The
program uses the "SDL" library, available at www.libsdl.org, which
is distributed under the GNU LGPL license,version 2 (www.gnu.org).

To compile on Linux or FreeBSD (and possibly other operating
systems which I haven't tested), run:

./comp

If it doesn't work, try:

chmod 755 comp

.. or check the contents of the file "comp". It is recommendable
anyway to edit this file and modify the compiler flags, according
to your system (for instance, if you have a Pentium 3, Athlon XP
or other processor which supports SSE, you might want to add
"-mfpmath=sse" and, of course, "-march=.....").

For more options,the file "config.h" may be edited, which
facilitates the selection of the display resolution, viewing angle
and other parameters. You should change line 37 in "config.h". The
game will (probably) run with 16, 24 or 32-bit color just as well,
but only one of these values will lead to the maximum framerate,
depending on your screen settings.

After compilation, you can start the game by typing:

./simcar TRACKFILE

Examples:

./simcar tracks/track1

./simcar tracks/track3

5 tracks are available in the directory 'tracks'.

An executable file already compiled for Linux, Pentium II processor
and 640x480 resolution is also available.

The buttons which control the car are:

Q or UP - accelerate
A or DOWN - brake
O or LEFT - left
P or RIGHT - right
R - reverse
ESCAPE - exit

The objective of the game consists in whatever the player wants to
do (ex.: get to the end of the track as fast as possible and without
bumping too much into other cars). Some statistics are displayed in
the terminal after exiting (distance traveled, time, average speed).

To view the image on the entire screen, replace "SDL_SWSURFACE" with
"SDL_FULLSCREEN" in the file "simcar.c" and recompile.

Look in the directory "aux" for other details, like how to make new
tracks quick and easy, some makefiles (if you want) etc.
