                         Boppin' Features
o  150 levels
o  over 2500 tile images
o  All graphics in 32 colors
o  Animated story
o  Multiple endings
o  over 40 sound effects in stereo
o  15 unique pieces of multitrack music
o  One or two players (simultaneous play)
o  Second player can start at any time
o  Full-featured editor with online help
o  Easy playing of custom-designed levels
o  Passwords for saving progress in game
o  High score display and save
o  Hard drive installable
o  PAL and NTSC supported

Boppin' requires 1 megabyte of memory and will run on all Amigas.  
Joystick required, mouse recommended for Editor.  Two player option 
requires second joystick.

Boppin' will be available May 15, 1992 from
     KarmaSoft
     P.O. Box 1034
     Golden, Colorado, U.S.A.  80402
     (303) 490-2939

Dealer and Distributor inquiries are welcome.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------

                        Controls of Boppin'

During the menus:

Use a joystick to move through the menus: push up and down to move to 
another option, push left or right to change selection.  Click button to 
make selection.

During the story:

click button to advance story
Press ESC to skip story and get right to the game

During the game:

Move joystick left and right make character walk.  Yeet and Boik are 
smart enough not to fall off edges (although if they are standing on 
bopping blocks which get knocked out from under them then they will fall).

Characters appear on sources, each character has their own source.

Throwing blocks also appear on sources.

Pick up prizes and throwing blocks by moving over them.

Aim a throwing block by holding the button down and moving stick left 
or right.  Releasing the button throws the block in the selected 
direction (to cancel the throw, center the stick before releasing the 
button).

To ride elevators, step onto an elevator and push up and down on the 
stick.

To call an elevator to your level, hold stick button down and push stick
left (or right) towards the elevator "shaft".

To push a bopping block, stand next to block, hold stick button down and
push stick left (or right) towards the block.

You can catch a throwing block while it is in flight by running into it.

If you don't want the throwing block you currently are holding, stand on 
your source and pull the stick down and release.  The block will be blown 
up and a new one will come in.  This will cost you points and if you 
don't have enough points then it will cost a life.

If a throwing block is stuck in flight for some reason (bouncing back 
and forth between two refractors, for instance), stand on your source and 
pull the stick down and release.  This will cost you points (not as much 
as changing a carried block) and if you don't have enough points then it 
will cost a life.

Goal is to clear the world of bopping blocks.  Do this by throwing 
blocks which match the bopping blocks.  A mismatch will cost a life.  If
one of four simple patterns are completed by your throwing block then a
monster will be released for bonus points.  Remember, it may be possible to
push blocks into position to form part of a pattern which you can then
complete.  Also, gravity can change the position of the bopping blocks 
which can reveal patterns.

During play, the following key presses are operable:

Help     : Calls up summary of keys allowed during game and what they do.

ESC      : Aborts the game and returns you to the main menu.

'R'      : Restarts the world you are currently on.  You will lost 
           all that you have gained.  You will not regain all that you
           have lost.

F1       : kills player 1 (for those rare circumstances in which a
           character gets trapped)

F10      : kills player 2

F4 or 'S': toggles music on and off

SPACE    : pauses game.  Press space to unpause (for fun, try pressing
           another key other than the ones above during the game!)


During the menus, the following keys are operable:

F4 or 'S': toggles music on and off


To exit the program, press ESC while in the Credits Menu.
