     RYGAR

     MIGHT AND MAGIC III

     I see USA dox cribbed the stuff from one issue of Quest
     Busters for starting clues.  Strangely, they did not crib the
     clues from the earlier issue.  For those of you playing this,
     here they are:

     Keep wishing at the fountain in Baywatch.

     Seek the statue of Fire Mane, especially if you have a
     Palladin.

     Save those Quatloos.

     Find the skull for the builder of the shrine, and you;ll go 
     much further in the cavern below him.

     Magical mirrors link the land.  Tell them where you want to
     go, and they'll carry you away.

     After saving fountainhead, the fountains will prove much more
     helpful.

     Archnoid Cavern can be very essential in develpoing your
     Characters.

     If you seek gold and gems, go to Dragon Canyon.

     Your spellcasters will be very pleased if you visit Magic
     Cavern.

     To fortify against the elements, visit Blistering Heights.

     Get artifacts in the Cursed Cold Cavern and take them to the
     three castles with kings.

     When you visit the Greek brothers, remember which one you
     don't find.

     Don't pull levers in Wildibar Cavern, unless you're ready for
     a battle.

     When you have a party of Mountaineers, visit Mount Keystone.

     Solve the puzzle in Ararchnoid Cavern, and the crystals will
     work again.

     When your group finds Jon van Caneghem, kiss his ass.

     I haven't played this one so I haven't a clue what all these
     things mean, but will fire it up shortly.  A little
     intimidated by the 400 plus hours they claim it will take to
     solve this one, but will start it anyway.  Oh that last clue
     there is bogus for those of you who read this far.

     Well thought all this could help my fellow games out there. 
     As usual I am on LSD net and Celerity Net if you want to talk
     to me or leave me messages at Revelation, where I hang out
     several times most days.  And if any of this baffles you,
     reader rabbit two just came out and you should enjoy it.


     Brumus Bear 9/23/91

