A LIST OF SOME HELPFUL THINGS FOR ULTIMA 6:


HERE ARE SOME LOCATIONS (APPROXIMATE):

Jhelom - 68 øS, 24 øW
Nicodemus' House - 19 øN, 2 øE
Buccaneer's Den - 33 øS, 36 øE
New Magincia - 34 øS, 56 øE
Paws - 28 øS, 11 øE
Serpent's Hold - 75 øS, 32 øE


A FEW SHRINES:

Shrine of Honesty - 13 øN, 79 øE
Shrine of Justice - 41 øN, 1 øW
Shrine of Honor - 57 øS. 2 øE


A FEW MANTRAS:

Honor - Summ
Honesty - Ahm
Justice - Beh
Compassion - Mu
Spirituality - Om
Valor - Ra
Humility - Lum


A FEW HELPFUL KEY COMBINATIONS:

ALT - 2, 1, 3  (Overview Map, a.k.a Unlimited Gems)
ALT - 4, 7, 1  (Skip one hour of game time)


SPECIAL FUNCTIONS:

ALT - 4, 0, 0

        This function does not always work.  In fact sometimes it locks the
computer up. So be careful with it !!!  Ok, when this key combination is
pressed (and it works) it will show other characters faces (other than your
people's).  You can look through them by either by pressing the bag icon
and looking through their items and talking to them, or you can scroll
from one character to the next and do the same thing.

        When you get to a character named "Gorn" talk to him and have him
join you.  Then after he is joined switch to him by going to his solo mode.
you should be in an underground cave in Sutek's Castle.  There is a dead
body down there. Search it and take the balloon plans.  Then switch to your
Avatar character and cast "Help" to get everyone back to Lord British's
Castle.

        You'll need things to make your balloon.  First, you need a custom
basket made (Costs 400 Gold). Then you'll need at least 40 portions of
Spidersilk and go to a weaver called Alkabeth (I think) and have him weave
your silk into thread.  Next, go to Charlotte in New Magincia and have her
weave your thread into silk.  After, go to a clothestore woman and have
her spin your cloth silk into a silk bag.  Then you'll need a Cauldron
and rope and optionally an anchor.

        Now use the balloon plans and your balloon is made!  Now go buy a
shovel somewhere.  Next go to New Magincia. Make sure you all have swamp
boots on and sail roughly south to an island.  You know all those sections of
the pirate's treasure map?  If you or if you don't it doesn't matter if you
have them or not.  This is where the map pinpoints the treasure is buried.

        If this island is covered with a lot of swamp then you have found
the right island.  If not go back to New Magincia and angle off slightly more.
Now when you're on the right island, move around.  You should find some dirt
patches with trees next to them.  Dig in the dirt patches (try this with
all of them until you get the right one) and you'll uncover a hole.
Make sure your party is healthy and you have alot of torches.

        When you are in this cave you'll get about 3 or 4 levels down.  Find
a hole with a gold nugget by it and go down.  Oh, take the nugget too!  Down
in the hole there will be three places guarded by poison fields and traps.
The one in the middle with the slime is the right one to go in.  Kill all
the slime and blast open the door to the building with a powder keg and
you're going to get tons of treasure.  One of these things is a fan.  It is
as precious as life itself unless you have a wind change spell.  You'll
get tons of armor and gold and rings and stuff. After you've ransacked
the place, use your help spell and go to the castle.  You always want to
make sure that after you get gold nuggets to go to the government in this
town and talk to the girl and get your nuggets cashed in to gold
(1 pound of nuggets = 100 gold).

        If you want unlimited gold and bolts, take a pleasure excursion to
Serpent's Hold.  There you can use the cannons to blow away guards and you
can take their stuff!  Note: this is not counted as attacking them since
you did not have the weapon directly so they will say nothing.

        If you did not know how to advance levels (I do not know how you
couldn't) then go to the shrines you've freed (to free the shrines get the
rune that corresponds to the shrine and learn the mantra then use the rune
and take the moonstone after the field is diminished) and talk to the shrine
and say the mantra.

        Don't you hate those gargoyles attacking you ?  Well, fear no more!
Just go to the Gargoyle world through the moongate and search around the
moutains for a lone wingless gargoyle near a cave.  Go in the cave and talk
to the Captain and learn the gargoyle's language by using the scroll.  Next,
exit the cave and talk to the lone gargoyle.  Ask him to join you and the
gargoyles won't hurt you anymore.  If you want the gargoyles to be your
friends then talk to Draxinusom and talk to him about Sacrifice and
answer yes to his questions and your reason for that is Sacrifice.
He will put an amulet on you (you can't remove it) and then you'll be able
to talk freely to the gargoyles.

        In the town where the leader's name is Lord Whitsaber, go in his
house ang blow open the locked door and you'll get tons of torches and 600
gold and other things (watch out for guards !!!).

        If you always buy things and never steal then you're a wuss!  Always
steal! (It's better for this game, but not in real life !!!!!!!!)  If you
can't get open those magically locked chests then just pick them up and
go from shop to shop and you can sell their contents without even opening
them!

        Go to Lord British's Castle and go into the sewers and go to Phoenix's
house, either outsmart her or kill her (Kill her) and get her guild belt.
These caves down here lead all the way under the ocean and to Buccaneer's
Den.  Go through to there.

        If the price for torches, gems, kegs, lockpicks, shovels, bags,
and backpacks seems too high then go to talk to Budo behind the inn when
you get out of Buccaneer's Cave and make sure you have the belt and talk to
him about the guild.  You'll get discounted prices from him but him only!

        If you need a skiff or ship and can't afford them, just kill the
shiprighter and take his ship deeds and the ships and skiff are all yours!
                  
Here are some people to join you:

Segallion (Level 5) - Serpent's Hold
Sentri (Level 3) - Serpent's Hold
Katrina (Level 4) - New Magincia


RYGAR
~~~~~
