                               GAME TIPS

Typed in by PARASITE of LSD.


SWORD OF SODAN
        To complete the game and infinate lives:
Start the game as normal, choose your character and start the first
level. Now get yourself killed on level one, and when asked if you
want to replay or start a new geng select statr a new game. Choose the
same character as before, and keep pressing <return> until level one
has loaded. Now press return once more and a ! will appear where your
lives should be, and you now have infinate lives. If you press the
<return> key again you will go to the next leve1. This process can be
repeated up to the final level.


FALCON
        After taking off, your waypoint for your mission is selected.
Press "A" to engage autopilot and your F16 will head towards your
desired targer. To go one stage further engage constant autofly below
500ft. Switch radar off and kick in your afterburners. If Migs start
to track you, the autopilot will turn you around for a head to head.
        Decrease thrust to military power, turn on the radar borescan
mode, and when the bogey is at two miles, squeeze off a burst of
rounds and scratch one Mig.
        If you take a well placed bullet or missile up your six then
your engine flames out. Instead of bailing out, swing around and head
for home. Press <help> and "+" on the numeric key pad, and keep them
depressed. The F16 will stay level and drop down. Switch to tracking
mode and rotate to a side view. Just before touch down, pitch up the
nose and the plane will touch down successfully every time. Select
end mission and you will be rescued even if in enemy territory.


RAMBO 3
        When your in the second building, always wear the infra red
goggles. Never walk in front of the soldiers, otherwise the alarm will
go off.
        If you come to a dark room then use the glow tube then use the
glow tube. Never use a gun unless you have a silencer fitted to it.
Always turn off the electric door by walking into the switch on the
wall. The mine detector will only work when you have located all parts
of it. The infra red goggles only function when they have batteries.
Never stand on the infra red beams which cross the door, otherwise the
alarm will go off.


ROCKET RANGER
        Rescue the professor as this slows down the nazis, they can't
use him to increase their efficiency. You will waste valuable time
unless you rescue him from the Zeppelin while he is over the Atlantic
        Shooting the gunner in the Gondola is tricky, the best method
being shoot below the gunner and move left and right until you are on
target. Gradually move up until you hit the Gondola. When you hit it
there is a flash, stop firing and after a few seconds you'll be inside
the Gondola.
        Find the supply of Lunarium before the Fort Knox supply runs
out, so infiltrate the Nazi base which recieves Lunarium from the
moon. It is in South America or Africa, once infiltrated, your agent
there will cary on sending you Lunarium throughout the game. You will
have to storm the Nazi base first.
        NOTE: In a different magazine it recommends you don't waste
time rescuing the professor, as you will be always too late. Instead
use the agents to find rocket factories, and uranium depots.


HEROES OF THE LANCE
        Use the FIND TRAPS spell often, as falling rocks tend to
severely damage your team. Always put Flint first, Goldmoon third and
Tannis fourth in your party. During the early stages, the only real
problem in cambat is the hatchlings; use DEFLECT DRAGON BREATH spell,
and get Tannis to the front. Shoot at the hatchlings stomach. Five or
six well placed arrows will dispose of it.


GALDREGONS DOMAIN
        The secret to completing the game is to find five objects,
which allow you to kill the guardians of the five gems, keep your
strength and stamina high, so only enter combat if forced to. Keep
your characteristics on display at all times - objects are just lying
around, so this is the only way to spot them:

GEM 1:  This is guarded by a lich in Rotari's castle. You need to get
the cross frome the deamonmaster's tower to kill him.
GEM 2:  This is in the caves of doom and is guarded by a rock monster.
Kill characters in the cave until you find a diamond. Then kill the
rock monster.
GEM 3:  In the catacombs below the temple of Set. It's guarded by a
deamon which can only be killed while you carry a ceremonial dagger.
Kill priests in the large room in the east of the temple to find the
dagger and a key to unlock the demons chamber.
GEM 4:  At the SW corner of the map is a hidded labyrinth. Enter, and
kill Minotaurs until you find a key and a mirror. Find the Medusa,
kill her to get the gemstone.
GEM 5:  Go to the forest of the Elves in the West. Kill the Elf lord,
and take his Elven cloak. Go to the Assasins forest in the SE, find
the leader and kill him and get the gem.
        Now return all five gems to the king.


MIDNIGHT RESISTANCE
        On level one, when the game starts, jump onto the jeep, and
let it kill all the baddies for you, from here you will also
automitically collect all bonus counters.


ELITE
        Here is some information on the missions:

        MISSION 1: The enemy has stolen a goverenment ship. It is
called the CONSRTICTOR, is very fast and has an ECM system. Your job
is to destroy it, Otherwise it will cause havoc in the system. If you
complete it you will recieve 400 bounty plus 10,000 credits when you
dock.
        MISSION 2: The government have got hold of some Thargoid
invasion ship documents. your job is to take them to a planet
somewhere. as soon as you hyperspace, you will be attacked by
Thargoids after the documents. There are two ways of completing the
mission. The hard way is to fight your way across the galaxy, while
the fairly easy one is to find a route by using tech level six and
over so you can hyperspace into a planets system, then escape capsule
all the way. There are usually two plants you have to fight your way
into, and it's hard. If you complete it you recieve a NAVEL ENERGY
UNIT which builds up energy twice as fast, and cools down your laser
too.
        MISSION 3:The sun has gone into super-nova, and can blow up
any minute. The people in the space station want you to save them. If
you do it, the people will give you a gift of 1kg of Zanxian gem
stones, which is worth about 21015.2 credits. Before docking to save
the people a warning appears saying "fuel leak". Don't dock, but skim
the sun for more fuel, and then save the people.
        MISSION 4: The governvent has recieved information of a ship
which makes your on-board computer go wrong. Yuor job is to destroy
the ship, but there's a few problems when you shoot, it dissapears,
then reappears somewhere else. It also is installed with an ECM
system. If you complete it you get 5000 bounty.


HOLLYWOOD HIJINX
        To open the front door, turn bazooka west, then east, then
north. To open the safe in the house turn the dial right three, left
seven, and right five. If confused by the maze, put the thin paper on
top of the yellowed paper, put the cannonball in the cannon, and light
the fuse. Open the compartment and take the mask.


ENLIGHTENMENT: DRUID 2
        When you reach a new unexplored plane, take out the disk and
kill the druid. Instead of returning to the village, you will be
returned to the plane you died on. Insert the disk, and start playing
again, use this as many times you want. However, there is a problem
with this, you lose all the spells that you had before, and start the
game with the normal compliment of spells, so you might not last long
on later levels, but you can explore the later levels.


FEDERATION OF FREE TRAIDERS
        Advancement in rank has nothing to do with the amount of
credits to your name. It is releated to the number of missions you
complete nad ships destroyed. The only way to earn a lot of credits is
to haggle on the trade-net. By staying in the space station on the
net, and trading in guns, food and gold, you will quickly build a
fortune.
        Travelling to space stations requires you to jump until you
cannot get any further.
        To complete the missions:

        MISSION 1: Take message: just go there! Use E pod.
        MISSION 2: Destroy aliens, but not unknowns: Kill 4+. Use E
pod.
        MISSION 3: Destroy Sat!
        MISSION 4: Escort convoy. Use E pod.
        MISSION 5: Investigate dissepearances. Kill 4+. Use E pod.
        MISSION 6: Search for survivors.
        MISSION 7: Escort VIP. Land on planet then go to destination.
        MISSION 8: Go and report.
        MISSION 9: Destroy alien.
        MISSION 10: Rescue civilians. Land on planet.


PACLAND
        LEVEL 1: Jump on the fire hydrants to reveal cherries. On the
third fire hydrant, go to the right then walk against it. Your pacman
will now be wearing a blue cap, which means the little ghosts dropped
from the planes can now be turned inti 200 points on every hit. Jump
over a car coming from the right, wait until it turns around, jump on
top of it as it moves to the left, and you will find no more ghosts
appear on the screen. To pick up a bonus at the end of the level, jump
when the "E" of "TIME" appears.

        LEVEL 2: Jump on top of each cactus to get the cherries.
Finish off in the same manner as level 1.

        LEVEL 3: Keep your finger on the jump button to reach the end
of the logs easily. Run fast at the springboard and jump when you see
the springs pressed. Tap the joystick to the right to get over the
pool.

        LEVEL 4: Just sit back and watch the computer take over.

        LEVEL 5 and 6: These are easy with the boots as you go back
over the previous two levels. At the end of level 4, jump on the last
step to get a bonus. At the end of 5, jump when you see the whole of
your wife in  the picture.

        LEVEL 7: Watch out for the double decker busses, but if you do
the same car trick as in level 1, you'll have a clear ride. Jump at
the end when "E" appears.

        LEVEL 8: This is all swimming pools. Just wiggle like mad and
hope!


BIO-CHALLENGE
        Hints for the first three levels:
        LEVEL 1: Get the green armous as soon as possible. If you have
all of the amulet, don't go to the sphere unless you have collected at
least four lots of monster remains, you'll need them to battle the end
of level guardian. He's a bit soft in the head, so time your jumps
carefully, and hit him there.
        LEVEL 2: There are four planets to visit, go to everyone if
you want to get maximum points. Again, the green armour is very
useful, so get it as quickly as possible. There's loads of ammo for
the guardian of this level, unfortunetly that means there's loads of
monsters to deal with. The back of the guardians head is the weak
spot.
        LEVEL 3: Stand on the slabs and summersault. There are six
planets here, and the transporters are more difficult to so, so you
have to watch more carefully.


TEST DRIVE
        To get a highscore without playing the game:
        Load a wordprocessor, and load the "highscores" file, and edit
it, then resave it.
        Note that the highscore shouldn't exceed 99,999 and the name
musn't be more than 15 characters.
        To change the car, load the highscores as above, and use any
of these codes (They must be in lower case):

        p911t - Porsche 911 Turbo
        vette - Corvette
        lotus - Turbo Esprit
        rossa - Ferrari Testerossa
        counta - Lamborgini Countach


AAARGH!
        At the start of each screen you'll find various buildings.
Blow fire over them, and then hit them, This will make them fall down
a lot faster. When you burn or knock down a house you get an egg, then
a fight against the eggs mother. At the beginning of the fight, make
sure you put your finger on the fire button first and pull the
joystick towards the opponent.


CARRIER COMMAND
        Instead of re-inforcing your supply lines, go straight for the
enemies home island, Nemesis, as it freezes the enemy supply line and
disables the enemy carrier.


WICKED
        What the tarot cards mean, with an explanation:

        SUN: Arms you with eight-way autofire.
        STAR: A little star joins you, and fires when you do.
        DEATH: Gives you an extra life.
        HANGED MAN: Eats away at your time limit.
        MOON: The forces of evil hime in on you.
        WHEEL OF FORTUNE: Gives you energy, or takes it away
        LION: Shields you from evil forces.


XYBOTS
        General playing hints:

        If you manage to reach level 10, you're better off using your
radar to kill the xybots. Just line them up using radar and fire, you
don't have to be able to see them.
        Keep as many keys with you as possible because some levels
don't have enough to complete them.
        There are short cuts to level seven on levels one and four -
you get extra cash for using them.
        If you have the extra energy upgrade try not to let your
energy fall below 100m, because you lose the upgrade if it does.
        Drums are not just decorations - hide behind them when
possible and use your zapper near to them to find more cannon power
        On level eight, near to the top left hand transporter youc can
get to two white coins by blasting away one of the three walls around
them.
        Don't split up in the two-player game, because it's easier to
complete it together.
        The mster xybot lives on level 11, and you'll need to stock up
on double shot and extra shot speed to stand a chance of survival.
        Try to get one xybot to stand behind another - they'll blow
each other apart.


NAVY MOVES

PART 1:
        Move back slightly when you encounter a mine. They're much
less sensative from the rear.
        Avoid jetski bullets by jumping or ducking.
        When approaching sharks, move the up and down nut left and
right.
        Octopi and sea monsters are easily thwarted by holding down
fire until both missiles are ignited and then releasing.
        Struggle to dock with a submarine? Put a mini-sub in the gap
between the tailfin and the hull, face the left of the screen and move
upwards slowly, the computer takes over the docking procedure for you.

PART 2:
        The code is 948411.
        Arrows indicate the direction of the lifts.
        Kill white marines and flamethrower troops to get more ammo.
Stand over the body and search thoroughly.
        To get the code of an official, you must shoot him with a gun,
not a flamethrower.
        To enter computer codes, stand by a terminal, push up and
you'll be asked for a code. Two of the codes are:

Transmit message: 1st or 2nd transmission official
Open door: 1st or 2nd machine official

        To open the reactod door, use the terminal next to the
reactor. The computer confirms the bomb is planted. Go out, use the
same terminal you used to open the door and transmit the following:
OABERYAMD. Now type END at the ready prompt and run like hell to the
conning tower.


NEW ZEALAND STORY
        On level 1, part 1, move to the area containing three men with
boomerangs, shoot them. Go to the top of the third platform, move to
the left, jump and fire five times. A whirlwind in a box will appear,
if you enter it, you will be transported to the end of the level. Then
you can free Tiki's naughty friend just by jumping.
        When you recch the ice whale, move to the right-hand side of
the spikes, avoid the crystals, and wait until he picks you up. Once
inside the whale, you can start shooting, but avoid the ice drops.
        Meeting the rock monster without bombs makes him difficult to
pass. So collect bombs, go to the highest platform and shoot him. Kill
it by either dodging the bullets and hitting it when the doors open,
or by fireballs.
        The last boss you encounter is the balloon seal. He cant be
killed, by blows to the body, so you must hit the balloon. Be careful
for the balloon seal is armed with a cannon and shoots cannon balls at
tiki.
        The town names are:
AUCKLAND, ROTORUA, WAITOMO CAVES, STRAIT COOK, and MT COOK.


POPULOUS
        These are some of the worldnames:

 0      Genesis
 3      timuslug
 5      swauer
10      moringill
14      weavhipham
18      hobdietory
23      sadwillow
26      verymeend
31      douusick
36      calozboy
41      burmpall
44      bilador
53      coropert
59      mingbdon
63      douperbar
69      scomphill
73      burgbord
78      weaveaed
84      shadopend
88      lowinlow
94      suzogoboy


FIGHTER BOMBER
        Choose the F-15 or the Phantom F-3a because they carry more
bombs and mavericks. Always arm your plane with sidewinders, in case
of enemy planes. Choose the F-15 Tomcat as your enemy as this plane is
the easiest to kill. If you get enemy aircraft arround you, fly
slowly, and don't move around much. Fire lots of flares, and when the
enemy is behind you, fly right around.
        Always use sidewinders, but use the gun to conserve missiles.
When you get to the mission "BRIDGE END", use afterburners. When you
get top speed, switch off your engine. Slow down to 250Km and put your
afterburners on. Keep doing this until you near the target. When the
SAM sight fires, use your afterburners, fire four Mavericks and keep
using the flares until it's destroyed. You must fly very low th hit
the bridge.
        Type BUCKAROO as the pilots name, and you can choose one of
the 16 missions.


EYE OF HORUS
        Type SPAM in the credits section for infinate lives, and you
don't need the correct colour coded keys anymore. Set is located
through the blue locked loft.


CRACKDOWN
        type SMURF and then press F1 and F2 to give unlimited lives to
your two characters.


STRIDER
        Play the game, and press F9 to pause, now hold down <help>,
<left shift>, and "1", release the keys, and unpause the game with
F10.
        Pressing keys 1 - 5, you can skip through the levels
respectivly. Pressing F1 - F4 gives you differant points in the level.


IMPOSSAMOLE
        Type these passwords on the highscore table:

        HEINZ  -Full power bars
        LUMBAJAK - Double length energy bar
        ANNFRANK - Tops up low energy
        OOCHOUCH - Walk on water
        COMMANDO - Extends time limits on weapons
        JUGGLERS - Try this one and see!


UNTOUCHABLES
        Pause the game and type the following passwords:
        BRIDGE ROLLS - Level 1 - 2
        MAC NALLEY   - Level 2 - 3
        KID ZAPPING  - Level 3 - 4
       A NIT IN TIME - Level 4 - 5


BEVERLY HILLS COP
        To play any level, click past the high-score table, onto the
screen where you select the difficulty factor and type MELLIE, all
levels will be avaliable.


VIGILANTE
        Enter your name as POOKY IS MY PAL in the highscore table, and
now F1 increases your lives, and F8 goes to the next level.


IVANHOE
        Pause the game, and type JC IS THE BEST and press <RETURN>.
Press "N" to advance a level, <delete> to kill all bad guys on screen.
On the intermediary bonus screens, press <ctrl> to wipe out the
heavyweight.


PUFFYS SAGA
        Press F5 and F6 together during the game and be transported to
level seven.


DYNASTY WARS
        When the title screen apperas type CHEAT MODE. Press F2 to
advance a level.


E-MOTION
        Type in the name from the title screen when the game loads. F1
then advances through the levels, "F" moves you forward ten levels.
Use F3 and F4 to move beckwards.


QUADRALIEN
        Here are some levels:

        170961 - level 2
        010655 - Level 3
        610169 - Core


BAAL
        The Level 1 teleporter codes are:

        13 00 29 16 24
        64 53 50 25 04
        58 49 48 38
        32 68 00 29

        And level 2:

        12 12 48 56 30
        17 54 35 02 34
        24 34
        02 06


GEMINI WING
        The level passwords are:

        classics - level 3
        whizzkid - level 4
        gunshots - level 5
        doodguyz - level 6
        d.gibson - level 7


SHINOBI
        Pause the game and type LARSXViii


GIGANOID
        On the select player screen, tap the <caps lock> key, then
start the game as normal, When you've read the message, you can
proceed with 100 lives.


TOTAL ECLIPSE
        Hold 1 and 9 down, and press fire for impressive results!


RINGS OF MEDUSA
        When the game loads, enter your name as
DESOXYROBONUKLEINSAEURE, and <help> will give you the cheat menu.


LEONADO
        Try these level passwords:
        IVANHOE, MATTERHORN, EMMENTALER.


STRYX
        When the game starts, press <help>, "M", and "D" together to
replenish your energy, Use <help> and "P" to obtain the door passes.


GHOSTS 'N GOBLINS
        When the credits appear, type DELBOY. "Cheat mode activated"
will appear, and you are invincible, providing he dosen't fall down a
pit.
