                          GARRISON

Typed in by PARASITE of LSD.


INSRTUCTIONS
        When the title screen appears you can either press the space
bar to commence, or wait for the playing figures, rivals, and the
objects which have to be collected to be displayed.
        After having pressed space you enter the character selection
picture. Here you can choose the characters you want to play with. All
figures have several differant qualities, but we will not betray which
advantages and disadvantages belong to each figure.
        You can activate these figures pressing the function keys F1 -
F5 or F6 - F10, and if you want to you can deactivate them pressing
the same key.

NOW THE GAME CAN BEGIN!
        Before each single level you are asked with which figures you
want to play with. Two players may play simultaniously, and up to five
persons can participate in this game. Therefore one player can choose
his figures with F1 - F5 and another player with F6 - F10. In this way
differant people can finish in varied combinations a level. Skillful
teamwork may become vitally necessary in the higher levels, and
therefore you should not waste any time in mutual bombarding!
        During the game you may choose additional figures. but it is
only possible to dial each figure once per level.
        If you only have a half meg machine all figures will have the
same appearance, however they are all individuals on the one meg
Amiga.

CONTROLS
        All figures are controlled with joysticks:
Player 1 : port 2
Player 2 : port 1
You can abort the game with ESC.
You can pause the game with SPACE. Another key press resumes.

        The figure follows the moves of the joystick and with pressing
the firebutton you can shoot to the according direction.
        The player has naturally only one life, the health is
indicated on the right side, near the scores for every player.
        Contacts and hits lead to a deteriation of your health, but do
not forget other objects which could have the same effect.

        The indication SHMAPF shows all abilities of each figure.
Letters have the following meanings:
S - SPEED of the characters.
H - HAND-TO-HAND COMBAT - This stands for the ability of hindering a
    rival in a further participation in the game.
M - Magic power - This power raises the effect of a SCROLL. A SCROLL
    is an object you have to collect and which eliminates every other
    rival on the screen. You can activate a SCROLL either with the
    left SHIFT key (Player 1) or with the right (Player 2). Because
    magic power requires concentration the player cannot move.
A - ARMOUR. The stronger the armour the lower are the losses of your
    health when touching a rival.
P - SHOT SPEED
F - FIRE POWER

        But unfortunately the effect of the lot of various figures you
may meet in the legendary castle is up to now totally unknown.
        In the higher levels you will recognise the increasing amount
of rivals. They become stronger and some of them should be immune
against SCROLLS.
        These appear out of "spring of ghosts". This game contains 128
levels which will be arranged by chance after the fourth level.
        After having finished gloriously a level you can write your
name into the HIGHSCORE table. You have to use the keyboard and finish
with return. There are seperate highscore tables for each character
and a team list for the general performances of all the players.
