                        MANHUNTER IN NEW YORK.

Typed in by GLEN. Edited by PARASITE.


August 27 2004. 6am
I  am  a manhunter.It has been two long tedious years  since  the
invasion.They came suddenly,like a thief in the night....it was all
over by dawns fist light.I have no idea how the rest of the world is
doing.Outside communication has been suffocated.
All of us are required to wear the desinated uniform,brown robes,and
we must keep our faces hidden as much as possible.Above all else,we
are not allowed to speak to each other,To do so would mean certain
death.
Most have given up,for fear of the aliens with their powerful technology
and deadly robots.

5.45 pm
New York has been devastated.The invasion has taken its toll on the city
damaging many structures.Living conditions have steadily eroded.
Vandalism has skyrocketed,and there is no longer any maintinence of the
city or its streets.Most businesses have shut down,only a handful of
small shops remain.The largest buildings in town have been boarded up or
taken over by the Orbs.There are restrictions to traveling through the
city,and most humans are not allowed out of their confined desinated
areas.

August 28 2004. 5.15pm
The Orbs have been working furiously since their arrival.It is like they
are on a special mission of some sort.I have noticed significant changes
in the atmosphere since their arrival.Strange,rotting odors permeate the
air and an increasingly red tint has overtaken the skyline.The behavior
of fellow humans has grown increasingly peculiar.It's all a mystery to me.

August 30 2004. 8.30am
There are fewer people on the streets.All of my freinds have disappeared
vanished into thin air.I have looked for them where I could...I mean its
not as if they had anywhere to go.

11.15pm
There are rumors floating the streets of a secret society.Humans who
have banded together to drive the Orbs from New York.I have heard they
thrive underground,where the tracking disks cannot read there signal.
The tracking disks were surgically implanted in the backs of our necks.
It is now common knowledge that the Orbs have had trouble with disks.
Apparently the disks can only transmit the location but not the identity
of the user as expected.Thus the need for Manhunters.

August 31 2004. 10.31pm
A select number of humans were selected by the Orbs to become Manhunters
I have no idea how the selection was made or how I was chosen.Tomorrow
is my first day on the job,an dI have no clue as to my destiny.All they
have told me is to read the "Manhunters Field Guide" which they say will
answer all my questions.

CONGRATULATIONS,
               on being selected for the esteemed position of Manhunter.
This guide will introduce you to all the information you will find
necessary to become an effective,loyal follower of the Orb Alliance.
Manhunter is the highest position a human can hold under the Alliance, so
be grateful.

Each day you will be given an assignment by your sectors supervising Orb.
The assignment will involve tracking down humans who,in some way,have
wronged the Alliance.You will be given a 24 hour period to discover and
report the humans identity so that he can be corrected.

You have been issued  one Manhunter Assignment Device(MAD).MAD is your
link to the alliance computer.With MAD you can access the tracking records
associated with your current assignment as well as the Human Database
Service.As Manhunter,you are allowed to travel to locations pertinent to
your current assignment.DO NOT STRAY OR LOITER!
Always conduct yourself in a manner suitable to your position.Treat your
fellow Earthlings with the indifference they deserve.
(page 3)
MANHUNTER ASSIGNMENT DEVICE (MAD)

MAD is a small,portable apparatus linked by radio transmission to the
Alliance computer.MAD has two functions:Info & Tracking.

INFO:This function provides access to limited information on all humans
currently residing in the planet Earth city of New York.After pressing the INFO
button,type in the full name of the human.The human database service will
then provide your MAD with information(address,ID number,etc)of the
selected human.After receiving information,you may select REPEAT to try
another name or EXIT to leave the program.If you accidentally type in
the wrong name,you can try again,or type BYE to exit.
NOTE:The Orb Alliance has authorized Manhunters to visit any address
furnished by the info system.
(page 4)
As a Manhunter you are required to record all pertinent data that you
discover during your investigation.Luckily,INFO provides a means to
enter this data through its autoscan feature.Whenever important
information is picked up by a Manhunter (important documents,notes,etc)
Autoscan examines the data and stores important information into memory
for future access.To observe this data press INFO from your MAD and
type NOTES in place of a name.

TRACKER
All human movement is recorded in the humans tracking records
database of the Alliance computer.Due to the  low priority placed on
these records,tracking information on each human is only available
from shortly before the time of the alleged criminal activity to a time
period not extending beyond the end of that day.Due to unforseen
difficulties with human tracking disks,the targeted humans identity is
not recorded.Also,tracking of a target is cut off if the human should
venture under  earth soil.However,this practice is strictly
forbidden and should not hamper your investigations.

One function of MAD is to tap into the appropriate human tracking
records for your current assignment.When MAD first accesses tracking,
it will determine and then "tag" the most appropriate human target signal.
A playback will then begin of that  targets movements throughout the
city.During playback,MAD will also display any other human targets
that come in close contact with the tagged human target.You may
(page 5)
tag any of these human subjects that you feel may be beneficial to your
investigation.To tag the new target,simply place the marker over the
desired subject and press enter.The yellow rotating target should
change to the subject you have chosen.You may replay tracking records
as often as you find necessary.Manhunters are authorized by the Orb
Alliance to visit any location that a tagged target visits.
NOTE:Experienced Manhunters have found that the most efficient way to
use the tracker is to watch it until it terminates transmission.
Proceed to replay the transmission closing MAD after the target leaves
each location.Travel to the location shown and investigate.

SIGNAL TRACKER
This is recntly installed featuer that allows the recording of various
signals entering and leaving the Alliance central Computer.

The Alliance central computer contains a signal analyzer
which resides in its I/O buffer.Once playback begins,the analyzer
begins,the analyzer determines if the tagged signal contains restricted
information.ANY TAGGED SIGNAL CONTAINING RESTRICTED MATERIAL MUST BE
INVESTIGATED.However,since the analyzer is in an experimental stage,a
certain amount of manual control is necessary.A signal must first be
tagged by the manhunter before it can be analyzed.To tag a signal place
the marker over the signal you wish to be tagged and press enter.The
signal will change color when tagged.After a signal has been tagged it
is   automatically    fed into the analyzer.If the analyzed signal
contains restricted information,the signal can then be traced back to
its  source by your MAD tracking device.After the traced signal
leads you to a suspect,you will follow normal Mnahunter procedure to
complete your investigation.

MANHUNTER OVERVIEW..
A Sierra 3-D animated adventure,simply stated is an interactive movie
where you become the main character,in this game the main character is
a Manhunter,an agent of the future who spies on fellow humans for an
alien empire.

Each adventure has a main goal,and yours in Manhunter is to track down
humans for the Orb Alliance,learn the whereabouts of the human
underground,and ultimately discover the true purpose behind the alien
invasion.You will need to move stealthfully and wisely as time is
quickly vanishing for America and its citizens.

TIPS..

1.How to move around: Basic instructions on how to interact with this
game are included in this manual and the reference cards enclosed.
For those of you who are not sure what to do,there is a WALK THRU
included at hte end of this manual.

2.Keep your face covered and your lips tight:Due to the dangerous
nature of this game you will want to save the game often.Follow the
instructions on your Manhunter quick reference card to save game.
after you have made important progress in the game SAVE GAME,whenever
you encounter a potentially dangerous situation.If you do encounter
danger,or fail to complete all the required tasks to get past a given
obstacle,you can follow the instructions on your reference card to
RESTORE GAME to the place you were at when you last saved your game.

Intelligent use of this function has spared many a Manhunter from
having his position terminated permanently.
F1...HELP
F2...SOUND ON/OFF
F3...TRAVEL
F5...SAVE
F7...RESTORE
F9...RESTART
ESC..MENU ON/OFF
ALT Z...QUIT
CTL J...JOYSTICK/MOUSE
C...MAD

NOTE:Manhunter New York employs a convenient feature that automatically
gives you a second chance after you have encountered the most grisly of
situations(namely a gruesome death).This feature allows you to face the
most unexpected of conclusions without requiring you to replay the
entire game.

3.Keepyour eyes open:Look at and examine everything you can.Watch
closely those around you.Pay close attention to detail.There are many
clues,both visual and symbolic,which will help you succeed in your quest.

4.Team up against the enemy:This Orb-infested metropolis can be one mean
place for a Manhunter to live.You may find it helpful to play Manhunter
with a friend.Different humans come up with different ways to interpret
clues,and besides,it makes life a lot more fun.
5.Got your back against the wall:If you've tried every trick of the
trade and still can't get anywhere,don't panic.Even expert Manhunters
have been known to get blown to shreds. It's part of the job.


MANHUNTER WALK-THRU.
Manhunter is a unique sierra 3-D animated adventure,using an object
orientated interface.the following walk-thru is provided to facilitate
your understanding and enjoyment of this new interface.The contents
of the walk-thru includes helpful suggestions that experienced
adventurers may not wish to see.Continue reading only if you are
having difficulty playing Manhunter.

The title screen opens showing the invasion of New York city. Press
Enter or spacebar to bypass the title screen.

Your adventure begins two years after the alien invasion. It is your
first day on the job. You are rudely awakened by the sector's
supervising Orb,who gives you instructions for your first days assignment.

"ATTENTION MANHUNTER!THERE WAS AN EXPLOSION AT BELLEVUE HOSPITAL !
INVESTIGATE."
Press Enter when you are ready to proceed.(note: in most situations the
spacebar will perform the same function as Enter) Your character gets
out of bed and turns on the lights.He takes his Manhunter assignment
device (MAD) and turns it on.The computer reads "ALERT".press Enter.
the computer responds "TRACKER HAS LOCKED ON TARGET.LOCATION:BELLEVUE
HOSPITAL" Press Enter.

The yellow target is the person you are currently tracking. Remember to
always watch where the target goes and what they do.When the computer
is finished tracking,you will receive a message.The computer reads,
"TARGET SIGNAL LOST,TRACKING TERMINATED" Press Enter.

Select tracker again.After the target leaves the hospital,you will
zoom out to see the target as it travels on the city map.Press C to
close the computer.

You are now viewing the travel map.Locations you are authorized to
invbestigate are indicated by a blinking square.Your current location
is indicated by an X.The blue/red circle is your marker.

Trace the path of your target to investigate the location he has visited.
To go to Bellevue hospital,move the marker down until it hits the bottom
of the screen.The screen will flip to reveal the next portion of
the map.You will see Bellevue hospital blinking.Position the marker over
the hospital blinker.Press Enter to travel there.

You are now standing in front of Bellevue hospital.Move your marker
around the screen to reveal various messages.Position the marker near
the bottom of the right wall and it will change into an arrow.Press
Enter.

You are now standing where the target bombed the wall of the hospital.
Press Enter to go inside.

Position the marker over the toe of the corpse and press Enter.take
note of the victims name (Reno Davis).You may want to press Enter to
back out of this view.

Next,position the marker over the corpses face and press Enter.Watch
this scene until the baby Orbs attack your face.

NOTE:You can avoid death by pressing Enter to back out of this view
just before the Orbs eat your face.

After you die a message will be displayed.Press Enter to return to the
game.You are now outside the hospital again.Press the TAB key to display
your inventory.Select MAD,Select INFO.Type Reno Davis.Press Enter.
Select Exit.

Select Tracker.You may watch the target at the hospital again or press
S to skip ahead to watch your targets movements after departing the
hospital.

Watch the target travel through the city.The tracker will zoom into
Trinity church.after the target leaves the church,press C to close the
computer.

Press F3 to travel.

Move the marker down to the location of Trinity church.Press Enter to
travel to the church.

Position the marker over the front door of the church.Press Enter.

Position the marker over the area where the target went.(the candles on
the left side of the room).The marker will change to a magnifying glass.
Press Enter.

Position the marker over the matches and the marker changes into a hand.
Press Enter to light the candle.

NOTE:Later in the game you will receive a clue on what you should do at
this location.

Select MAD from your inventory,You will receive a message that your
signal is too weak.Maybe you should go outside to use it.Press Enter to
continue.Press Enter to back out of the scene.Press Enter again to
leave the church.

Select MAD from your inventory.Select Tracker.

Watch the church scene again or press S to skip.

The tracker proceeds to a bar in north Brooklyn.Watch where the target
goes once he has entered the bar.When the target leaves,Press C to close
the computer.Press F3 to travel.

Find north Brooklyn and travel to the bar.

Position the marker over the door and press Enter.

Position the marker over the video game at the left side of the room
and press Enter to play the game.You will be interrupted by an
unfreindly group of bar patrons.Watch this scene until it is your turn
to throw the knives at the bartender.The object is to land A knife
between each of his fingers (four total) without missing.Press Enter
yo throw a knife.

Throw a knife outside of the hand area.You will be thrown outside.Go
back inside and position the marker over the knife table.Press Enter
this time,throw a knife and hit a finger.

After you die,press Enter to try again.Aim carefully and you will soon
be successful.

After winning the contest,watch carefully the signal tath the bartender
gives you.This will prove useful later.

Now that you have proved your skills to the thugs,you will be able to
play the video game undisturbed.

Press Enter to play the video game.Read the instructions.

To move the character through the video game,use the arrow keys.(left,
right,up & down).

P.S. Be sure to watch for clues as you play Manhunter.Many objects in
the game have symbolic significance,and may be useful for more than one
purpose.Keep an eye out for strange or unusual things that may occur in
the game.
