                                NIGHT HUNTER

TYPED IN BY SEWER RAT. Edited by PARASITE.


WHAT IS A VAMPIRE?
     A vampire is a person who although dead, is not at rest. It
leaves its grave to suck the blood of living people. A vampire can
take on the form of a bat or werewolf and lives only during the
night hours. It fears the daylight, holy water, spring water and
the crucifix. The only way to kill a vampire instantly is to drive
a wooden stake through its heart. The most famous vampire is
without doubt, Count Dracula.

THE STORY
     Until now humans have been protected from the remaining
vampires thanks to a number of holy medallions which have helped
to keep the balance on Earth between Good and Evil. But Count
Dracula's plan is to steal these medallions, create Chaos on Earth
and become its master again. Professor Van Helsing, the untiring
hunter of the vampires, heard about Dracula's gloomy project.
Immediately, he formed an army of anti-vampire fighters, set traps
and informed the population in order to prevent Dracula from
stealing the medallions.

THE GAME
     The game features 30 different levels of 20 screens each. The
player takes the part of the Vampire searching through the levels
for the hidden medallions. To pass from one level to the next the
player must pick up eight objects - three parchments and five keys
- and find a magical door (blue and red). Every fifth level the
magical door is replaced by a medallion. Each key allows you to
open a door which gives way to other screens on the same level.

THE VAMPIRE
     Dracula can be controlled only by the joystick. The controls
are as follows :-

- To turn and walk : move joystick to the left or right
- To duck : pull joystick down
- To pick up objects : if object is placed on the ground, pull the
  joystick down ; if object is placed over the ground, pull
  joystick up
- To use a stairway : while you are in front of the stairway pull
  the joystick diagonally up (to go upstairs) or pull it
  diagonally down (to go downstairs).
- To enter somewhere : While you are in front of the door or
  passage, press the fire button while pulling the joystick up.
  Act in the same way in front of a medallion.
- To catch an enemy and to suck his blood : grip his throat by
  pressing the fire button at the right time and keep it pressed
  until there is no blood left.
- To take the shape of a bat : pull the joystick diagonally down
  and right and press the fire button at the same time. To become
  a vampire again, repeat the above procedure.
- To take the shape of a werewolf : pull the joystick diagonally
  down and to the left and press the fire button at the same time.
  The werewolf can be controlled in the same way as the vampire,
  but it cannot pick up objects or enter houses, but on the other
  hand, it can hit its enemies (press the fire button). To become
  a vampire again, repeat the above operation.

THE ENEMIES
     Every character you meet will try to kill you :- the vampire
hunters (armed with wooden stakes which can kill Dracula
instantly), the priests (throwing holy water), the bowmen, the
witches (invisible), the birds of prey (can't be killed and be
careful, don't let them take you away), the policemen (armed with
guns) and the formidable Professor Van Helsing (invisible ;
throwing wooden stakes and appearing only at the end of each level
when Dracula has picked up all objects).
     You will meet other strange creatures, who will be armed to
injure you.
     Strange marks on the ground can signify the presence of traps
(which can kill Dracula if he is walking over them).
     The day breaks when the moon has reached the right side of
the screen. In order to protect Dracula from the daylight, enter a
crypt (they are only open in the morning).

INSTRUMENT PANEL
     The instrument panel at the bottom of the screen indicates,
from left to right :-

- Your score and the high-score.
- Your energy level (orange pillar). Each time you are hit by an
  enemy you will lose some energy. Dracula will die when there is
  no energy left.
- Your transformation-time (blue pillar). Each time Dracula is
  transformed into a bat or a werewolf, this pillar will decrease.
  Once it has disappeared, Dracula will become a vampire again.
- Numbers of lives (additional lives after every 100 000 points).
- All objects that have been picked up.

OTHER KEYS
SPACE BAR : Pause On/Off
ESCAPE    : Background sounds On/Off

SPECIAL EFFECTS
- The five keys (red, blue, grey and two yellow) and the three
  parchments (numbered from 1 to 3) are not always placed in an
  obvious position. Watch each screen attentively.
- Certain doors can be opened without a key
- The bat and the werewolf are insensitive to certain weapons.
  On the other hand, the silver balls kill the werewolf instantly.
- If you have taken the shape of a bat, be careful not to
  transform back into a vampire while you are over water.
- The bat can only land on the ground and never on the platforms.
- If you are touched by an enemy while you are a bat or a
  werewolf, you will be transformed back into a vampire.
- Van Helsing is your most dangerous enemy. If he appears, avoid
  him carefully.
