                             Swords Of Twilight

Typed in by BIRDMAN. Edited by PARASITE.


    CRESTS!

 - /\   This poor imitation is roughly the shape of the first set of
   ||   shields, which are shaped like hexagons (6 sided)...look it up
   \/   in your old math books if you're not sure!

TESSALON - Hexagonal shield.  White star, in a yellow circle, on a green field.
           Small stars have six points.

PERCODAN - Hexagonal shield.  Yellow star, in a white circle, on a mauve
           field.  Small stars have six points.

FIORINAL - Hexagonal shield, red star in a black circle, on a yellow field.
           Small stars have six points.

ALTHEA - Hexagonal shield.  White field, on which there is centred a 'ankh', ie
         symbol of life.  Top centre, there is a upside down "U", bottom centre
         Left side there is a 5 sided star, right side there is a "spinning"
         symbol.

YARROW - Hexagonal shield.  Same as Althea, except the field is red, and the
         pictures are white.

INDERAL - Hexagonal shield.  Large purple star on a white circle, on a purple
          field.  The 5 sided star's point is up.

VISKEN - Hexagonal shield.  Large black star in a yellow circle, on a turquoise
         field.  The 5 sided star's point is down.

TENORMIN - Hexagonal shield.  Black star on a white circle, on a red field. The
           5 sided star's point is up.

BENEDIC - Hexagonal shield.  Black raven/falcon on a white field.  Black star
          on left. side, red star on right side.

CARMEN - Hexagonal shield.  Yellow raven/falcon on a brown shield.  Yellow star
         on left side, white star on right side.

BELLADONNA - Hexagonal shield.  Black star on white circle.  On a purple field
             5 sided star's point is down.

BRUCINE - Hexagonal shield.  Brown star on a white field.  On a black field. The
          5 sided star's point is up.
_____
|   |   This is supposed to be the rough design of a standard shield
|   |   If you're still confused, sorry, buy the game.
\   /
 \ /

BERCILAK - Standard shield.  Yellow squid/octopus on a green field.

MGOREM - Standard shield.  Black field full of white stars.

URSIN - Standard shield.  Yellow circle on a red field.

IMRIC - standard shield.  Light brown raven/falcon on a yellow field.  Field has
        a light brown border

KEVIN - Standard shield.  Yellow triangle on a purple field.  Point of triangle
        is up.

THEELIN - Standard shield.  Yellow triangle on a purple field.  Point of
          triangle is down.

VALOR -  Standard shield.  Green/purple dragon on Yellow field.  Top of shield
         is green with a yellow castle.

POLARIC - Standard shield.  Blue field with a yellow stripe diagonally across
          the shield.  Within the yellow stripe, there is a black square,
          circle, and triangle.

BRITOMART - Standard shield.  PUrple unicorn on white field.

TORONTO - Standard shield.  White squid/octopus on a mauve field.

AJAC - Standard shield.  Red field with a white stripe diagonally across the
       shield.  Within the white stripe, there is a black square, circle
       and triangle.

GARDOL - Standard shield.  Black raven/falcon on a white field.  Shield has a
         black border.

ARIANA - Standard shield.  Black unicorn on a yellow field.  There is a white
         stripe running down the centre of the shield from top to bottom.

LOCHINVAR - Standard shield.  White field full of brown stars.

BRONWEN - Standard shield.  White circle on brown field.

CORIANDER - Standard shield.  3 white ankhs on field of alternating purple and
            brown diagonal stripes.

KODAK - Standard shield.  3 yellow ankhs on field of alternating yellow and
        light brown diagonal stripes.

PARSIFAL - Standard shield.  Full plain light blue field.

BELLATRIX - Standard shield.  Full plain green field.

Swords of Twilight offers you an extraordinary opportunity:  freedom of action
in a world of wonder and sense.  Eat, sleep, explore, learn.  Meeting
interesting people. Talk, fight.  Just like real life - with magic.  If you
like, bring a friend or two, and live the life of a knight or magician on a
quest to recover the Sword of Shambala.  Gossip with dragons, cast a spell with
word an gesture, swing your sword at an armored foe, or stalk the musty
corridors of ruined tombs where skeletons stir at night.  Short of first-
degree burns, this is a close as you can get to a dragon's breath or a wizard's
fireball.

Swords of Twilight is fairly intuitive and largely self-prompting.  Learning it
can be done in 5 ways.

*  Read the manual.  (We know it's against your principles, but give it a try.)
   If you're in a hurry, at least read THE DISKS AND QUICK START TO SWORDS OF
   TWILIGHT.

*  Trial and error is a reasonable way to familiarize yourself with movement and
   the menus.  Nothing dire will happen  (Honestly)

*  Observe the conduct of your computer-controlled comrades;  although they
   lack an overall sense of purpose or direction (that's up to you) they do know
   how to conduct themselves in an encounter with friend or foe.  If you do not
   speak up, they will.

*  Ask anyone you meet everything the menus allow, and pay attention to the
   answers, which may depend on the type, experience, and location of the
   speaker.   Even commonplace sayings are true and relevant.

*  Use your imagination.  Put yourself in an ancient world where magic works or
   used to.  What would you do?  How would you act?  Would someone object to
   theft or murder.  Could you go a week without food?  Or sleep?  When in
   doubt, act naturally.  The world you experience, however fantastic,
   reflects our own.

CAUTIONS
This manual is written for Amiga computers.  If you're using any-
thing other than an Amiga, consult the Command Summary
Card included in the package.

To play Swords of Twilight, your Amiga must have at least one floppy
drive and 512k of RAM  If you're going to play from a hard disk, you'll need
more than 512k of memory.  Your machine must be operating with Kickstart
1.2 or higher.  The game supports up to two joysticks.

Don't throw away the box - you'll need those crests on the inside front cover.
<STARR-= THOSE CRESTS WILL BE IN THE FINAL DOX!>
THE DISKS
Inside the package you'll find a program Disk and a Data Disk.  The disks are
not copy protected.  Unless you install the game on a hard disk, you also
need a blank floppy disk.  Before you begin play, YOU MUST MAKE A COPY OF
THE DATA DISK.  It'll auto. be named "copy of Sword data Disk"
Leave it that way.

When playing, use only your copy, not the original.  The copy will be updated
every time you "save the game. (See saving the game, page 5); if you ever go
to start a new game, make another copy of the original data disk.  If you don't
know how to make a copy, read the instructions below that pertain to your
particular system.

Because Swords of Twilight uses a custom font, you must boot (or reboot) with
the Swords of Twilight Program Disk.  That is, when the computer asks for a
Workbench disk, insert the program disk.  Double click on the disk icon when
the window opens up, double-click on the sword icon to begin the game.  You
can install the game on a hard disk by following the instructions below.

In these instructions, left click means click (quickly press and release) the left
mouse button.  double click means click a mouse button twice in a row,

GAME COMMANDS
Characater Actions
Use the cursor keys or the joystick to move your character.  All other
actions require the "trigger key," the right ALT or AMIGA key or the joystick
button.  Press and release the trigger key to get into the menu of further
options what allow you to:

*  Shift your attitude or manner
*  Take items (pick up or drop items, ready or unready
   equipment, eat food or drink a potion)
*  Talk to people (Ask for information and aid, Offer answers,
   give and receive gifts)
*  Move (exit the menu and move or fight)

See Menus and other options for more details.  To fight, select SHIFT and change
your attitude to HOSTILE (If you aren't already)  Next, select MOVE to exit the
menu.  When your character is next to a foe, press the trigger key, and without
releasing it, use the cursor keys or push the joystick in the direction
you wish to strike.

PAUSING THE GAME.
Press ESC to pause the game any time you're not on the Rainbow Road.  To
resume play, press the spacebar.  You can also pause the game by holding
down the left ALT or AMIGA key.  Use this if you wish to write down a message
on the screen.  The game resumes as soon as you release the key.

QUITTING THE GAME.
To quit, remove the disk(s) from the drive(s) turn off your computer, or reboot
with a different disk.

REGROUPING.
During the game, you can shift control of a character from the computer to a
human player or vice versa.  If a friend arrives or leaves, you can "regroup"
Hold down the left ALT or AMIGA key, and press R.  Next, use the left/right
cursor keys and the right ALT or AMIGA key to specify how each char-
acter in your party will be controlled.

Note:  your can't regroup during an encounter or on the Rainbow Road.

SAVING THE GAME.
The standard way of ending a game session is to return home, see the Queen,
and Part.  At that point you have two options:  Save or Regroup.  To save the
game and preserve your progress up to that point, choose Save.   If you just
want to try new characters, choose Regroup.  (Note that this does not have
the same effect as left ALT-R)  If you save the game, you can then continue
playing with the same character, choose new ones, or quit playing.

If you're about to enter a particularly forebidding dungeon, or you don't have
time to make it back to Glorianaa's castle, press F10 to save the game.  You
must be outdoors but not in an encounter.  You can then continue playing or
quit.  When you quit and later restart the game, you'll be exactly where you
left off.  With this option, you cannot changed the character in or the locations of your group.

QUICK START OF SWORD OF TWILIGHT.
FORM A PARTY
From a cast of 31, pick three characters to begin your quest.  Using the
keyboard and one or two joysticks as input devices, up to three people can
play simultaneously, each controlling one character  The computer will
direct any of your comrades not controlled by a human.  ( You can't use a
mouse, but you can leave it connected if the computer is running the cor-
responding character.)

Your initial choice of characters is not crucial.  All of them are reasonably
equipped, and a mixture of ranks works best.   For starters, avoid the slow
(e.g. Tessalon) and the stubborn (Bercilak or Ursin) In fact, let the mages
stay home for now, and begin with Imric, Ariana, and Lochinvar, per-
haps, or Valor, Bronwen, and Gardol.  (See Cast of Characters for more in-
formation.)

A DYNAMIC WORLD
Swords of Twilight is dynamic.  Things change.  Reputation spreads.
Circumstances vary.  Castles fall to ruin; ruins can be rebuilt.  Treasure
taken away is gone.  A valuable object left behind may be moved and put
away.

ENCOUNTERS.
Every individual in unique.  All ogres are ogrish, but some are stronger or
stupider than others.  Even commoners differ in skill and experience. There
is no direct way to tell the rank of those you meet.  Someone
with several followers will tend to be higher-ranking than a
lone individual.  A more experienced person knows more and
is harder to impress.

Encounters are fluid.  Everyone's behaviours affect everyone else's.  Friendly
folk naturally move physically closer to one another. People whisper
secrets they won't shout across the room.  If you get too close for comfort,
however, people will withdraw or get angry.  Pressuring them can work-
but not for long.

REPUTATION.
People remember how you treat them, and gossip spreads quickly.  If you
roam through a town slaying everyone you meet, you'll ensure a hostile
reception there.  And you'll be unwelcome elsewhere in the land.  Try to
part on a positive role with those you met Friendly or Polite. Leaving
people Hostile or dead will cause you trouble later and, to some degree,
will even harm the reputation of the Queen's other envoys.

There are exceptions.  Slaying ghouls, ogres, or Shadowlord's minions
may earn you a hostile greeting in a Shadowlord's citadel but will en-
hance your reputation elsewhere.  However, nobody cares what you do in
a ruin - except the people  who live there.  Likewise, the reputation you
earn in one world has little effect on your reputation in another.

NIGHT AND SHADOW
The gloom of night is real.  Those who prowl the darkness are often
dangerous, and even decent folk are more apprehensive and less friendly
in the dead of night.

Time is against you.  As Shadow falls across the worlds, fear breeds distrust;
suspicion leads to hate.  Emboldened ghouls strike at human habitation;
sacked settlements become ruins:  home of the lost, the desperate, and
those who prey on them.  In a ruin, no guards man their posts; no one has
authority or influence; none can help or heal.  Slaughter  and theft on your
part only hasten the decline.  To restore order and allow rebuilding, you
must act quickly.

EXPLORE ALBION FIRST...
The world in which you begin the game, Albion, is initially friendly and
peaceful.  Combat is inappropriate,and magic
spells are ineffective.  In a game sense, it is a "learning"
world:  a nonthreatening environment in which to learn some
basic information about your quest and  accustom yourself to the mechanics of
the game.

...THEN TRAVEL TO OTHER WORLDS.
To get to other worlds, you must travel the Rainbow Road, which means
getting past a dragon or two.  If a dragon asks you to identify the bearer of
a displayed crest, look on the game package.  Type in the answer on the
keyboard and press RETURN.<THE CRESTS ARE AT THE BEGINNING OF THIS TEXT FILE!>

THE SCREEN

      WINDOW 1                    WINDOW 2


                 WINDOW 5 (The main window)


      WINDOW 3                    WINDOW 4

The game screen is dived into five sections (called "windows").  One of the
first three window shows the face, name and status or manner of the character.
you're currently playing.  The other two show your comrades:  The characters
accompanying you on your quest.  At different times, your character's window
will show choices you can make, your dialogue, and news about
your condition.  (See Menus and other options and monitoring your
characters.

Windows 1 and 2, reserved for knights and champions, are controlled by
joysticks 1 and 2.  Window 3 can be occupied by a mage or knight controlled
by the keyboard.  any of the three can represent a companions controlled by
the computer.  Anyone you encounter on your quest appears in window 4.
Window 5 - the main window - displays your group, their surroundings,
and  the action.

GETTING STARTED.
Once you have loaded the game, the initial title screen will appear, and the
Road theme will play (The Amiga version has four voices - four instruments a
playing at once - in stereo.) Press the key, as requested on the screen, and the
display will change.

In the game, there are 31 characters you can play:  12 mages, 7 champions,
and 12 knights.  Only three are active (on the quest) at a time, so you must
first decide which three will start the game.  You'll take the part of (that is,
play or control) one; each of the other two can be played by a friend or the
computer.  Only one can be a champion, and only one (whoever is using the
keyboard) can be a mage, but neither champion nor mage is required.

CHOOSING CHARACTERS.
1.  Starting with Window 1, use the left/right cursor keys on the key-
    board to highlight the type of character you want (Champion or knight).
    Put the highlight under COMPUTER if you want the computer to run the
    character or under JOYSTICK 1 if you want the character controlled by
    someone using a joystick in port 1 (which is usually occupied by the
    mouse).  Press the right ALT  or AMIGA key.
2.  Use  the up/down cursor keys to scroll through the list of characters.
    (They are described under Cast of Characters)  When you see the name of
    the character you want, press the right ALT or AMIGA key.
3 .  Select next to go on to the next character, or Redo to reselect
    the character for window 1.
4.  Select characters for windows 2 and 3 following the steps above.
    Once you've selected characters for all three windows, you
    can redo Choices all over again or Begin Game.

BEGINNING THE QUEST.
You begin the game in the main hall of Queen Gloriana's castle, AEdifice, in
the heart of the land of Albion.  You and your comrades are reasonably
equipped, and the Queen will provide provisions (gifts and rations, perhaps an
elixir, if you're not overburdened,) every time you leave home.  Ask questions,
and pay attention to what she says.  When the audience is over, leave by the
center door behind (below) you, and continue out the main gate.  In a mo-
ment, you'll be out of the castle and on the road to adventure.

CONTROLLING YOUR CHARACTER

MOVEMENT.
If you're not in a menu (see below) pressing the cursor keys or
pushing a joystick will move the corresponding character around on the main
window.  Each cursor key moves the keyboard controlled character in the
direction indicated on the key.  Pressing two keys - right and up, for
example would move the character diagonally, toward the upper right
corner.  If one direction was blocked (by and east-west wall above your
position, say) the character would move in the unblocked direction (right)
until an open in the wall enabled an upward move.

If your character's face is in one of the upper windows, you'll be playing with
a joystick .  Push the joystick forward to move your character toward the top of
the screen.  Pull the joystick back to move your character down.  Move joystick
left or right moves your character left or right.  To move diagonally to the
upper right push the joystick up and to the right.

No character wants to stray too far from everyone else.  If you try to move
too far way, you'll be stopped (at least momentarily) with the message "Too
far  from the others."  You may have to wait for your comrades to move - or
turn around.

COMBAT
Although the majority of your encounters with others should be peaceful,
some may involve combat.  To fight, you must be Hostile (see Manner) and out
of the menu.  If you then hold down the "trigger key" and press a cursor key
your character will strike -not move - in the indicated direction.

Striking is not instantaneous.  There is a slight lag between your action and
your characters, as your character (not you) aims and prepares a blow.  (The
lag is longest for novices, shortest for champions. )  after your character
strikes, there is another delay before you can strike again.   (Quick characters
recover fast than clumsy ones.  Even computer -controlled character experience,
these delays.  Holding down both trigger and cursor keys allows you to strike
repeatedly, as fast as your character can manage, but it is tiring and
not always good tactics.  Note that a blow has force only at the exact instant
that the character is first shown in the striking position. The rest of the time
the character is depicted in the outstretched position, the character is
recovering and can't strike or move.

Dealing or receiving blows is fatiguing, but a blow that penetrates armor and
shield causes a wound.  Although an unarmored individual may fall from a
single powerful blow, death is more commonly the result of a series of wounds
- and exhaustion.  although it is hard to keep track of an entire melee, you
can see, hear, read and (after a while) even feel the results of your own
battles.

The success of an attack depends on many factors:  strength, skill, fatigue,
aim, timing and the quality of your weapon.  In general, you should be as close
as possible and lined up horizontally, vertically or diagonally with your foe.
Fatigue slows you, weakens your blows, and reduces your ability to defend
yourself.  Magic items and spells may aid attack or defense, while armor worn
by a defender absorbs much of the force of a blow.  A shield gives you
additional protection, but not while you're in the process of striking
 (including delays)

MENUS AND LISTS
All other actions available to your character involve "the menu" -
actually a series of menus and lists.  To get into the menu, press
and release the trigger key without moving your character.  The
main menu will appear in "your" window.  As long as you are in the menu,
the cursor keys or joystick move you from option to option.

A menu is simply a row of options or choices.  To choose an option, move the
highlight left or right and press the trigger key when the option is
highlighted.  A list is a column of items or options, only one of which is
 visible at a time.  An arrow next to an item in a list points in the direction
 (s) of other items in the list.  Your peruse a list by "moving" vertically
 (scrolling.)  Press the trigger key when your choice is showing.

Many menu options lead to a sub-menu or list of options that initiate
dialogue or action.  If you decide not to pick an option from a list or menu,
select X (for exit)  To leave the menu altogether, keep choosing X until
the main menu appears with Move highlighted.  Press the trigger key once more.

MENUS AND OTHER OPTIONS.
Much of the action of the game involves encounters with people or creatures
you meet.  An encounter is essentially an exchange - of information (usually)
gifts or aid (sometimes) or blows (often ) At least the first two
possibilities require using the menu.

THE MAIN MENU

        SHIFT              TAKE             TALK           MOVE

   Change attitude      Use, ready,     Greet, warn;     Return to action.
                        pick up, and    offer and ask    (exit main menu)
                        drop items      for information
                                        and items.

MANNER
Your manner determines how friendly you seem, the words you use, and, to
some degree, what you can do.  The friendlier your are, the more
comfortable those encounters will be; the more hostile you are, the more
threatening others will find you.  The friendlier others are, the
more helpful and informative they'll be.

If you are alive, awake, and aware, your manner is shown in a
corner of the window.  To change it, select a SHIFT from the main menu,
scroll through the choices, and select the one you want with the trigger
key.

FRIENDLY - open , warm, casual, relaxed, informative.
POLITE - Slightly less open and friendly
WARY - Cool, cautious, guarded.  Since your movement is slow and quite,
       you attract less attention and have fewer encounters.
HOSTILE - Aggressive, rude, threatening, uninformative.  You must be
          Hostile to fight.

You need not fight while Hostile, but it is hard to carry on much of a
conversation that way:  most people you encounter will feel impelled to
defend themselves, or run away.   For clarity, the manner of those who choose
to fight you is labeled Combat.

Over time, anyone controlled by the computer will tend to match your manner,
but changes in circumstances and other developments may prevent this.

CONVERSATION
The main way you learn things in the game is by talking to people you meet.
Think of a conversation as an exchange of attitudes and information.  The
more information you and your comrades provide, the more you get.  What is
said depends on the manner and identity of the speaker:  a sage's greeting
is not the same as a knight's; the words of a Friendly warning are not those of
a Hostile one.  You converse by using the TALK menu.

TALK
             GREET (PART)     WARN    OFFER       ASK         X
        Say hello or goodbye    |       |          |          |
                                |       |          |        Exit to
                 Caution or threaten    |          |
                                        |          |
                           Who What Why yes No     |
                                                   |
                                    Who What Where Aid Info

STARTING AND STOPPING A CONVERSATION.
A conversation normally begins with an exchange of greetings
and ends with a parting message.  To say hello, just select Greet
from the talk menu.  To say goodbye, choose PART (which
replaces GREET as soon as you select anything in the Talk menu).  The program
will render your choice as a line of dialogue appropriate to your manner.  All
conversation in the game works this way.  Press the trigger key again to erase
your dialogue and return to the menu.

A warning usually indicates the imminent end of a conversation - and the
beginning of a battle.  Depending on your manner, choosing WARN may
prevent - or provoke - a fight.  Indeed, if your foes are divided or uncertain,
saying anything at all may quell combat and permit further talk.

QUESTIONS
Choosing ASK from the Talk menu allows you to ask various questions.
Everyone knows some facts that may be useful to your quest, but no one
knows everything.  The dragons that guard the Rainbow Road are likely
to know where it goes, they might recognize the scene of ambrosia but neither
know nor care what humans call the nearest town.  Commoners, on the other
hand, could name the town but not the potion in your flask.  Those of higher
rank know more than their less experienced or less traveled fellow.  The more
significant the information, the harder it is to learn.

ASK WHO to learn something about the people you meet.  If the answer con-
tains the phrase, "my words are heard", you're talking to someone of sufficient
influence (if not necessarily the inclination) to offer you any helpful item
stored in the building (the "donjon")

To learn something about an item in your possession, ASK WHAT, scroll through
the list of your items, and pick the one you want to identify.  If you
ASK WHERE, you may find out not only where you are but also, perhaps, the
location of other important places, where to enter the Rainbow Road, or
where it leads.

Most information pertaining to your quest, magic, the Shadowlords, and the
way of the universe works in Sword of Twilight can be learned by choosing

ASK INFO.  You can pursue a line of questioning by choosing
MORE - When it is available.  Remember that the answers to
Where or Info depend not only on who you're talking to but also
on where you are.

Aid is help of material kind:  food, shelter, healing, arms, or equipment.
Unless distracted or sidetracked anyone who has the power and the
inclination to offer you aid will do so.  You may, however, ASK AID to hasten
or clarify matters.

ANSWERS
Anyone who does not know you will want to know who you are and why
you're there.   (The phrasing varies substantially but the interest is
universal).  To answer questions or offer information, select OFFER from the
Talk menu.  You can Offer WHO or Offer WHY before or after you're asked, but
ignoring questions antagonizes people.

The "translation" of Offer WHO depends on circumstance as well as manner.
An expansive answer is more informative - and more impressive - coming
from a champion than from a novice.  However, if your reputation is bad, you
may want to let one of your comrades Offer WHO.  Similarly, a Friendly Offer
WHY is more informative than a hostile one - but that may have negative
consequences if you are talking to minion of a Shadowlord.!

DRAGONS
The only time you need to go outside the menu to answer a question is when a
dragon asks you to identify the bearer of a crest.  On the inside of the game
package, find the picture matching the crest shown, type the name of the
person to whom the crest belongs, and press RETURN.  If the name appear on
the screen, all is well.  If not, try again.

GIFTS AND OFFERS.
Offering a gift or spare item to someone you meet is usually preliminary (or
a response ) to getting aid.  Try it with those who can provide substantial
information or help.  To offer a gift, select OFFER from the Talk menu, WHAT
and then the item.  If your offer is accepted, the gift is automatically and
invisibly borne away.

If no one else is around, you can offer an item to one of your comrades in
exactly the same way.  You might want to offer an elixir to a wounded comrade,
for instance  If no one seems interest, you can end (erase) the offer simply
by pressing your trigger key.

To accept an offer form someone else, Offer YES, to decline, Offer NO.

TAKE
      USE    READY        LIST          DROP       GET       X
       |       |           |             |         |         |
  Ingest food  |      View your          |         |      REturn to
  or a potion  |      possessions        |         |      main menu
               |                   Drop something  |
         Put on (or take                           |
         off (equipment )                  Pick up something

EQUIPMENT
Choosing TAKE from the main menu allows a variety of non strenuous physical
activity.  With one small exception, any verb in the Take menu generates a
list of the items (one at a time) on which you could perform the action chosen.
Select the item you want or X to return to the Take menu.

You can review the items in your possession by selecting LIST.  A symbol (+)
next to an item in you list indicates the item is ready.  The same symbol
between your name and status indicated you have as many items (8) as you
can carry,

To take hold of a staff, belt on a sword, or have a key at hand, choose Ready.
You can also Ready armor, an accoutrement, shield, ring or talisman.  A
readied item will stay readied until you "unready" it (by repeat the procedure)
You can also unready an item by readying a comparable item - for
instance, readying a ring automatically unreadies the ring currently worn.  In
general, anything that can be readied probably should be; otherwise, it has no
effect.  Note that you can't Offer or Drop a readied item.

If you're touching an open chest, a sack left buy a vanquished foe, or the body
of a dead comrade, choosing GET allows you to view a list of any meaningful
items left behind.  Selecting an item then adds it to your possessions
if you have room.  You can try to open a closed chest by
touching it and choosing GET.  (See chest and trap under Donjons)

To eat journeycake or take a swallow of a potion in a flask, pick USE.  If
you finish a potion, the flask is discarded automatically.

To get rid of an item you no longer want, select DROP.  Unless you are looking
through a chest, anything you drop will normally appear in a sack.  you or
anyone else can retrieve the item by touching the sack or chest and choosing
GET. "Ooops !" warns that the item you just dropped may vanish unless you GET
the item before dropping anything else.  (That happens rarely perhaps the
chest if overflowing) If you wan to recover the item, choose GET.

MONITORING YOUR CHARACTER.
You keep track of your character directly (by sight, sound, and touch) in the
main window and indirectly (by color, text, and symbol) i9n the window
dedicated to that purpose

STATUS
If you are Asleep, Paralyzed, Dead, in a Trance, or Controlled by an opposing
sorcerer, your status will be indicated in the upper corner of your window.
Otherwise, your manner will be show. (See Menus and Other Options.) A
symbol (+) nearby means that you have  all the object you can carry.

WOUNDS
The colour of your name indicates your health.
WHITE - Perfect health.  Unwounded
GREEN - Slightly to moderately wounded,  LIttle impairment.
YELLOW - Seriously wounded.  Strength and endurance impaired.  Dangerous.
RED - Critical condition.  Severe impairment.  any further damage will probably
      be fatal
BLACK - Dead.

Wounds heal naturally over time but there are ways to speed up the process.
If you are a witch or sorcerer, you can heal your wounds or others' with a
spell (See Magic)..  A witch in a temple could do the same.  Drinking
an appropriate potion would also work.  Serious wounds may
require repeated treatments, and drowsiness is a common side-
effect of any sort of accelerated healing.  If you are badly wounde,d
and none of these methods is available, return home to Gloriana's castle.  With
better care and enforced bed rest, your character will heal rapidly and in the
meantime you can resume the quest with someone else.

OTHER EFFECTS
In general, if you get tired, hungry, or sleepy, you will be told, and you can
rest, eat, or sleep, as appropriate.  The effects - physical or emotional - of
traps, spells, and magical items are varied and often subtle, sometimes too
subtle too notice until the effect accumulate.  Malign effects generally dismiss
with time or end with the death or departure of the mage causing them.  There
are no poisoned, cursed, or negative objects, but all benefits have costs.

HUNGER
You can starve to death, but not easily.  A journeycake can assuage your
hunger, but it is better to take advantage of the laws of hospitality.  If you
encounter someone during the normal meal hours of dusk or dawn, any
reasonable host will offer to feed you.  Offer Yes or Offer No (from the Talk
menu) to accept or decline the meal.  Such meals are more elaborate and
satisfying than your rations.

FATIGUE AND SLEEP
Travel and combat are tiring, especially if you're encumbered by heavy, bulky
objects (swords, armor, shields, stones)  If fatigue slows you down, rest a
moment and catch your breath.  Continuing to the point of exhausting could
cause you to pass out.

Weariness (sleepiness) is the natural result of a day's travel or the use of
magic.  The best place to sleep is under a friendly roof, by invitation from a
generous host at sundown.  If you accept (i.e., Offer Yes to) such an offer,
you're guaranteed an uninterrupted night's sleep.

CAMPAIGN
Other options are available.  At nightfall (and periodically thereafter,
if you wish to keep moving around) you'll be asked if you wish to make camp.
.  You may postpone your answer while you find a more
secluded spot.  If you Offer Yes, you'll be asked about "taking the watch" If
you accept guard duty (Offer Yes, again) the others will go to sleep, and the
process will be repeated for the next watch.  Standing one watch out of three
will allow you about 6 hours of sleep - enough  to get by, at least in the
short run.

If no one take the watch, you'll all sleep till dawn - unless someone comes
across you in the dark.  The drawback to this is that everyone awakens groggily
even at dawn.  Someone on guard could rush to your defense, if necessary,
while the rest of you were stumbling into motion.

You can go without sleep for a time, but extreme sleepiness will eventually
overcome your willpower and put you to sleep.  If you get drowsy enough to
need a nap, enter the menu and choose Shift.  If asleep is an option, choose it.
If someone does fall asleep, the others will be given a chance to camp.  You
cannot camp in a cave, however.

TRAVEL
You can't walk through trees or mountains, but you can follow any path that
strikes your fancy.  You cannot swim (in armour?!) but you can cross small
streams without difficulty.  Some marshland or coastal sand may be passable
at dawn but underwater when the tide comes in.  Despite similarities between
worlds, mountains, tides and buildings are not the same everywhere.

ENTERING DONJONS.
To enter a cave or donjon, just walk in the structure you see.  If two characters have entered a structure, the third will automatically go along with
the others.  I no one else follows you in, you'll reappear, after a pause, on
the outside.  Note that civilized places close their gates at sundown;only ruins
can be entered at night.

THE GATES
The Rainbow Road forms a giant loop.  Each world has two gates to the
Rainbow Road; which one you choose determines the direction you travel on the Road.  EAch gate is a cave, which may be
guarded by a dragon.  Dragons are potentially dangerous, but
meeting one is much like any other encounter.  (The slight
exception involves the crests shown on the Sword of Twilight box.See "Answers"
under Menus and other options.)  To get on the Road, you must go
around the dragon and out the back (the top ) of the cave.

THE RAINBOW ROAD.
The Rainbow Road takes you to other worlds, each identified by a colour.  When
the colour (not the blackness between worlds) grows solid at the end of the
Road, you can press the trigger key to enter that world.  Pressing the trigger
key as soon as you get on the Road returns you to the world you just left.

The other worlds you can get to all resemble Albion, but the presence of
magic (spells work!) and the Shadowlords make them more exciting - and
more dangerous.

DONJONS.
Strictly speaking, a "donjon" is a castle keep.  In recent year, the term (and
its less appropriate variant, "dungeon") ahs come to be used, by extension, to
include castles, buildings, and settlements.  It is in this latter sense ("indoors") that we use it here.

DOORS
Doors are opened just by walking into them.  A door will normally close as soon
as everyone has passed through it.  Some doors are locked, but strength
and the presence of comrades near enough to "lend a hand" often help with
doors that are merely stubborn.   If an encounter is going on, you'll find it
easier to open the door later, after you have parted, when you and your
comrades can focus your attention on the task.

If a door resists your efforts, make sure the strongest character in the group
is in the lead, has the best key available, and has it readied.   (Computer-
controlled characters ready keys automatically, but people don't always remember.).  If, when
everyone is as close as possible, the door remains closed, try
another exit or another donjon; get a stronger character or a
better key; or resort to magic:  the proper ring, a potion, or enchantment
(to increase strength) an earth elemental (to try to force
open the door) or a wizard's OPEN spell (If you're exceedingly
patient, someone with a key may wander by.)

The point here is not that doors can be a problem but that there are many
approaches to even the simplest problems.

KEYS AND LOCKS.
Locks vary in complexity and power.  A simple iron key will open only the
most elementary locks.  A gold key is  a match for many more, and a rare
adamantine key will unlock anything - but only if it is readied.

CHESTS AND TRAPS
Chests represent anything in which potentially valuable objects might be
stored, from cabinets to coffins to conventional treasure chests.  If you're
touching a chest, you can open it by selecting Get from he Take menu and
scrolling thought the contents.  If it does not open on the first try, it is
locked, and its lock is too intricate for your readied key.

You can force open a locked chest by repeating Get, but all locked chests are
initially booby-trapped.  The more elaborate the lock , the more potent the trap
- and the more times you must choose Get.  Traps are often subtle, usually
inconvenient, rarely fatal.  Some are noisy, some not; some affect everyone,
while others touch only the person forcing the lock.  Temples favour traps
different form those found in tombs.  Those typically used in a citadel are
different still.  .  You can avoid a trap only by opening a chest with the
right key or the right spell.

Forcing open a chest and stealing its contents will not endear you to the
residents of the donjon.  On the other hand, if you were trying to return
an object to its rightful place, it would seem appropriate to put it in a chest
(or give it to a person of influence)

LEAVING
You exit a donjon the way you entered - and usually from the
same room.  When two characters pass through a door to the
outside, you'll all reappear outdoors.

MAGIC
Many of the characters you can play, as well as some of those you meet, are
mages - practitioners of one of the magical arts.  The occult arts vary, but
some general rules apply to most.

Except in Albion, a spell properly cast always works - within limits.  a spell
of protection, for instance, reduces danger or damage without necessarily
eliminating them.  The force of a spell usually depends on your rank.
Tenormin's OPEN spell will always open minor locks; with far more power, Inderal
can OPEN almost anything.  A magic staff normally increases a spell's force.

The higher your degrees of expertise, the more spells you can cast.  You can
cast any spell in your speciality whose power does not exceed your rank.

Thus, Belladonna, a sorceress of the 5th degree, can cast any sorcerous spell
except MINDBLAST ( a 7th order spell)

There is a cost to everything, including magic.  You must expend energy in
order to cast spells.  The amount of energy you use depends on he power
of the spell.  Powerful spells are more draining than simpler ones.  It's also
harder to cast spells on some worlds than others.  In any case, the more energy you use casting spells, the wearier you get.

If you're Friendly or Polite, casting a spell, entering a trance, or
calling the name of an elemental will make you Wary, Casting an aggressive spell
against a foe will turn you Hostile.

Spells can only be cast form the keyboard.  Generally, to cast a spell, you
press the CAPS LOCK key, type your mantra, and press RETURN.  You then type the
name of the spell and press RETURN again.  There are exceptions.

GOETY (The Conjurer's Art)
Goety is elemental magic:  the conjuring of earth, air, fire,a nd
water elementals to answer our questions, perform various
physical tasks, or fight for you.  Earth elementals are the strongest,
air the most magical, water the friendliest, and fir the most dangerous.
Knowledge varies among elementals.

You can conjure any elemental, regardless of your rank.  An elemental normally
appears bound within a hexagram.  In a dragon cave, or during an
encounter with someone else, an elemental will appear unbound but under
your control (usually).  In this case, a water elemental, which cannot survive
outside the hex, will fail to appear.

The seven binding spells differ only in power.  An elemental can break free of
the hex binding it only if its rank is greater than the force of the spell used
to bind it.  The more often you conjure elementals, and the stronger the spell
you use, the more hostile they'll be.  Regardless of your intention, even a
friendly elemental will eventually vanish, but an enraged elemental may turn on
 you before it leaves.  The higher the rank of an attacking elemental, the
greater the energy required to BANISH it.

CONJURERS
Tessalon               Rank:  6
Percodan               Rank:  3
Fiorinal               Rank:  1

The Elementals:
Rank       Earth       Air        Fire         Water
 1         CLOD        WIND       SPARK        DEW
 2         CLAY        ARIEL      FLAME        EDDY
 3         SAND        BREEZE     BLAZE        TARN
 4         STAN        GALE       BONFIRE      BROOK
 5         ROCK        SAMIEL     BRIGHTFIRE   FLUVIA
 6         CRAG        MISTRAL    PHLOGISTON   WHIRLPOOL
 7         CLIFF       TEMPEST    PHLEGETHON   TSUNAMI

GOETIC SPELLS
Order         Spell
 1            CALL
 2            INVOKE
 3            SUMMON
 4            COMMAND
 5            ORDER
 6            COMPEL
 7            CONTROL

CONJURING ELEMENTALS
1.  Press the CAPS LOCK key.
2.  Type the name of an elemental and press RETURN. (Example:  Type:  BLAZE
    and press RETURN.)
3.  Type the name of the binding spell and press RETURN.  Example:  Type:
    SUMMON and press RETURN.
4.  If the elemental is bound in a hex, you can talk with it or select
    Move to control it. )(During an encounter, or in a cave, control is
    immediate. )  ONce you assume control, you can no longer ask it any
    questions, but you c an cause it to move, fetch, or fight by using the
    cursor keys an d the trigger key.
5.  To dismiss the elemental, release CAPS LOCK; or, if you're talking to the
    elemental, select Part from t he Offer menu.
6.  If an enraged elemental attacks you, you can banish it by typing BANISH
    and pressing RETURN.

WITCHCRAFT
Witchcraft is life magic.  It has no effect on objects or the unliving (e.g.,
skeletons(.  MOst Wiccan spells are those of healing or relief, and none are
truly harmful.  They can all be cast repeatedly; the effects are incremental and
cumulative.

WITCHES
Althea        Rank: 6        Mantra:  BLISS
Yarrow        Rank: 4        Mantra:  WHIRL

SPELLS OF WITCHCRAFT
Power      Spell          Effects
 1         AIDME          Reduces mage's fatigue
 1         HELPME         Reduces mage's paralysis
 2         HEALME         Heal's mage's wounds
 2         AID (name)     Reduces fatigue for one person
 3         CUREME         Heals mage's wounds and reduces paralysis
 3         HELP (name)    Reduces paralysis for one person
 4         HEAL (name)    Heals wounds for one person
 4         AIDALL         Reduces everyone's fatigue
 5         CURE (name)    Heals wounds and reduces paralysis for one person
 5         HELPALL        Reduces everyone's paralysis
 6         HEALALL        Heal everyone's wounds
 6         SLEEPALL       Induces foes to sleep
 7         CUREALL        Heals everyone's wounds and reduces paralysis

CASTING WICCAN SPELLS
1.  Press the CAPS LOCK key down.  Type the witch's mantra and press RETURN
    (Example:  For Althea you type BLISS and press RETURN)
2.  Type the spell name and press RETURN.  (Example:  Type HEALALL and
    press RETURN
3.  If appropriate, type the name of the person you're healing and press
    RETURN.  (Example:  Althea is casting HEAL on Ajac, you type HEAL and
    press RETURN; next, type AJAC and press RETURN.

WIZARDRY
Wizardry is the most flexible and powerful of the magic arts.  Its spells are of
two type.  temporary and immediate.  Temporary spells of protection or
enhancement are akin to short-term enchantments.  their effects usually last
only until the end of an encounter.  Immediate spells last long enough to
have a single effect.  Illusions (like BLAZE) affect only living creatures.

WIZARDS
Inderal              Rank:  7           Mantra:  POINT
Visken               Rank:  5           Mantra:  DREAM
Tenormin             Rank:  2           Mantra:  RELAX

SPELLS OF WIZARDRY
Power      Spell            Type*       Effects
  1        OPEN               I         Unlocks chest or door
  1        FLASH              I         Throws an illusory fireball
  1        HIDE               T         Reduces mage's chance of being noticed
  2        KNOW               I         Identifies last item asked about
  2        WARD               T         Protects mage from normal attacks
  3        BLAZE              I         Throws a fireball
  3        COOL               T         Protects mage from fire
  4        GUARD              T         Protects mage from fire
  4        PROTECT            T         Protects mage from wraiths
  5        LIGHTNING          I         Throws bolt of lightning
  5        ROUSEALL           T         Increases everyone's fury of attacks
  6        COOLALL            T         Protects everyone from fire
  7        GUARDALL           T         Protects everyone from wraiths
  7        PROTECTALL         T         Protects everyone from magic

* I = Immediate
  T = Temporary

CASTING THE SPELLS OF THE WISE
1.  Press down he CAPS LOCKS key.  Type the wizard's mantra and press
    RETURN.  (Example:  For Visken, you'd type DREAM and press RETURN.)
2.  Type the spell name and press RETURN.  (Example:  Type LIGHTNING and
    press RETURN.)
3.  If you cast FLASH, BLAZE, or LIGHTNING, you fire the missile by holding
    down the trigger key and pressing a cursor key; you can also
    use the cursor keys to change the missile's course.  You can create and fire
    subsequent missiles without retyping the spell.

ENCHANTMENT
Enchantment is supportive magic.  Using the power of repetition, it temporarily
alter the physical or emotional state of friend or foe.  most enchantment last
until the mage responsible dies, falls asleep, or loses consciousness.  Maintain-
ing enchants takes energy.

ENCHANTERS
Benedic       Rank: 7
Carmen        Rank: 4

SPELLS OF ENCHANTMENT
Power    Spell         Effect
  1      EASE          Reduces weight of group's items
  1      DOUBT         Make foes more cautious
  2      BOLD          Makes everyone in the group bolder
  2      FEAR          Makes foes more fearful
  3      GLAMOR        Enchants the group's readied weapons
  3      ARMOR         Give the mage invisible armor
  3      SLEEP         Makes foes sleepy
  4      AGILE         Makes everyone in the group quicker
  4      CLUMSY        Slows foes' attacks
  5      STRONG        Makes everyone in the group stronger
  5      WEAKEN        Makes foes weaker
  6      BESTONE       Turns foes to stone
  6      VITALITY      Makes everyone in the group hardier
  7      ENABLE        Makes everyone in the group more skillful
  7      CONCEAL       Makes everyone in the group harder to notice

ENCHANTING
To cast an enchantment:
1.  Press down the CAPS LOCK key.
2.  Type the spell name and press RETURN
3.  Repeat Step 2 two more times.  ("Third times the charm.")

SORCERY
Sorcery is the magic of the mind:  ESP, empathy, mind control.  In its effects
sorcery is a bit like a more aggressive - and less comfortable - version of
witchcraft.  Spells cast on others have painful side-effect on the sorcerer.
Conversely, reflexive spells hurt everyone else around.  (Example:  If Bella-
donna casts HEAL on Bercilak, she wounds herself to a less degree.  If friends
or foes are present, and she casts HEALME, the others will feel some of her
former pain.)

the trance state is tiring.  Sleep, exhaustion, or total paralysis will break a
trance.  Most sorcerous spells, like those of witchcraft, can be repeated, with
cumulative effects.  With the exception of SCRY, the force of sorcerous spells
depends on willpower, not rank.  The cost of CONTROL depends on the
strength of the controlled mind; a strong enough mind can foil CONTROL.

SORCERERS
Belladonna            Rank: 6          Mantra:  CHARM
Brucine               Rank: 4          Mantra:  WEAVE

SPELLS OF SORCERY
Power     Spell            Effects
  1       SCRY             Derives information about a place by ESP
  1       HOLD             Stops one foe temporarily
  1       AIDME            Reduces mage's fatigue
  2       AID (name)       Reduces fatigue of name person
  2       TALK             Makes foes more talkative
  2       ABETME           Reduces mage's sleepiness
  3       ABET (name)      Reduces sleepiness of name person
  3       PEACE            Pacifies foes
  3       HEALME           Heals wounds
  4       HEAL (name)      Heals wounds for one person
  4       TIRE             Fatigues foes
  4       FRIGHT           Frightens foes and makes group bolder
  5       SLUMBER          Wearies foes
  6       CONTROL          Enslaves one foe until trance is broken or
                           another spell is cast
  7       MINDBLAST        Wounds all foes

CASTING SORCEROUS SPELLS
1.  To cast a spell, a sorcerer must first enter a trance.  Press down CAPS
    LOCK.  Type the proper mantra and press RETURN.  (Example:  For Brucine,
    type WEAVE and press RETURN.)  While in a trance, you can cast a series of
    spells without repeating the mantra.
2.  Once you are entranced, type the name of the spell and press RETURN.
    (Example:  Type AIDME and press RETURN.)
3.  If appropriate, type the name of the person you're trying to help.
    (Example:  Parsifal slumps, exhausted.  Type AID and press RETURN; next,
    type PARSIFAL and press RETURN.)
4.  To break a trance, release the CAPS LOCK key.

CAST OF CHARACTERS
Listed below are all the characters you can be.  On the quest, characters may
acquire more or better equipment and, by the performance of great deeds,
may advance in rank.  Advancement is quicker at lower ranks.

KNIGHTS
All knights bear sword, shield, and armor, but their personalities and abilities
vary.  Knights range in rank from 1st (novice) to 6th.

POLARIS - Less imposing than many, the unassuming Knight in Turquoise is
         known for studied  skill and prudent judgement.  His rank is 6th.

BRITOMART - In physical prowess more than a match for Polaris (or most
           others), the bold and belligerent Knight in Argent shares none
          of his caution.  Her rank is also 6th.

TORONTO - Sharing Bercilak's size and strength, the headstrong Knight in
         Purpure is hardier but even clumsier.  his rank is 5th.

AJAC - Jokingly called "Toronto's shadow," Ajac is slimmer, more coordinated
      nearly as mighty, and far more cautious than his friend.  Like
     Toronto, his rank is 5th.

GARDOL - Quick and clever, the wiry Gery Knight is known for his caustic wit
        and enchanted blade, Gleam.  His rank is 4th.

ARIANA - The Knight of the Sudden Sword has the fastest reflexes in Albion.
        Her rank is 4th.

LOCHINVAR - The White Knight is well-mannered, handsome, and popular.
           Her rank is 3rd.

BRONWEN - Skeptical, private, and vindictive, the Knight in Blood has moderate
         physical gifts.  Her rank is 3rd.

CORIANDER - The justly named Coriander the Cautious is a knight of modest
           abilities and deep suspicions.  He is of the 2nd rank.

KODAK - The fearless Knight in Autumn is a tough but warm-hearted fellow
       of no great skill.  His rank is 2nd.

PARSIFAL - The least of Gloriana's knights is landless and luckless, but he
          bears his burden with good grace.  He is a novice.

BELLATRIX - Resembling a younger Britomart, the cocky and combative Knight
           in Vert is a novice of great promise.

CHAMPIONS
Knights of the highest rank (7th) are termed champions

BERCILAK - Biggest of Albion's seven champions, the fair-haired Green Knight
          is as strong as an oak - and not much faster

MGOREM - Brooding and wary, the Black Knight is second only to
        Bercilak in strength and Ursin in endurance.

URSIN - The doughty of Red Bear will fight anyone, any time, at any
       odds - and has scars to prove it.  As it is said in Albion: "Bercilak
      is brave; Kevin is brash; Ursin is suicidal."

MAGES

Mages - Magicians - belong to one of albion's five mystic orders, each
reflecting its own distinctive magic.

TESSALON - Single-minded and somewhat reclusive, the Mage in Vert is the
          oldest and, at 6th degree, most skilled of Albion's conjurer's

PERCODAN - A 3rd degree conjurer, Percodan the Impertinent is bright, talkative
          and irreverent.

FIORINAL - Only a novice in the Goetic Order, the youngest conjurer is
          healthy, fresh, and friendly

BENEDIC - The fastidious Mage in White is the cleverest of mages and the
         most skilled of enchanters.  He is a master of the Incantaric Order.

CARMEN - The beautiful Mage in Murrey is known as much for her hourglass
        figure as her velvet voice.  The stunning enchantress is an adept of
       the 4th degree.

BELLADONNA - Aloof and distant, determined and dangerous, the Dark Lady
            is a sorceress of the 6th degree.

BRUCINE - No sorcerer is popular, but an implacable disposition and a cold
         vitality make the Mage of the Iron Will a feared presence in Albion.
        He is an adept of the 4th degree, but the sheer mental power of
       his spells is unequaled.

ALTHEA - Kindly and wise, the grey-haired Witch in silver is the most senior of
        Albion's small Wiccan Order.  She is an adept of the 6th  circle.

YARROW - The Red Witch is friendly and competent without the full measure
        of Althea's experience and wisdom.  She has attained the 4th circle.

INDERAL - Ancient as the mountains, frail as a reed, the wisest of the Wise is
         a wizard without equal.  At the 7th degree, he is a master of his
        art.

VISKEN - Modest and reserved, Visken the particular is a quietly competent
        wizard.  She is an adept of the 5th degree.

TENORMIN - Youthful and athletic, the dextrous Scarlet Mage is known for the
          speed of his hands.  (AS the joke goes:  "Ariana is quick, but
         Tenormin is fast.")  He is a 2nd-degree wizard.


COMPUTER CONTROLLED CHARACTERS
A significant feature of Swords of Twilight is that personality and behaviour
are built into the program.  You can experience a reasonable - and hectic -
multiplayer adventure BY YOURSELF.

THE CHALLENGE
Computer controlled characters talk, move, and fight without your help and
know the rules (and themselves) better than you do.  They also consistently
fail to read your mind, often disagree, perpetually get in the way, rarely
maintain the best tactical position, and cheerfully grab the best treasure
for themselves.   They are stubborn, easily distracted, and unable to dissemble
(even when you want them to).  In short, they can be just as frustrating as
real people.

Accept the challenge.  The three of you are a team.  Since they aren't pawns,
you must use persuasion.  sinc e you cannot talk to them , you must communi-
cate by action and implication.  If they can manage to go where you point,
be patient while you rest, and defend you with their lives, you can put up with their quirks.

THREE POINTS TO REMEMBER
1.  Their priorities are not yours, but they have reasons for what they do.
    If a wounded comrade declines your offered elixir, he probably know he's
    only been scratched.  If ursin rushes to attack the ghouls you wanted to]
    talk to, that is not a mistake; it is his nature.  Next time bring
    Theelin.

2.  They do pay attention to you.  They tend to stop when you stop and move
    in the direction you're facing, moving, or trying to move.  Over time,
    their manner will match yours.

3.  They're short-sighted and literal-minded.  they never plan ahead.  (That's
    your department.)  If they keep running into a wall or a door they can't
    open, they're trying to obey what seems to be your orders.

INFLUENCING YOUR COMRADES.
Although they'll wander around and investigate any object or passage that
catches their eye, computer-run comrades will readily follow your lead.  If
you're a mage, leading form the rear may require a bit of guile.  Assume you
are headed east along the north edge of a forest; to induce those ahead of
you to take  path to the south, press the down cursor key without letting up
on the right cursor key.  You'll continue eastward, and they';ll make the
turn.

If they precede you into a room and turn the "wrong'" way, press the cursor key
for the "right" direction while you're still in the doorway you won't move into
the wall. but they'll get thge message.  If you get ahead but want someone
else to open a door, step to the side of the doorway (preferably the far
side), face the wall, and try to move.

If your comrades want to fight when you do not, keep moving r talk fast.
If you're polite or Friendly, talking may stop your opponents, as well.  in the
reverse case, to initiate a surprise attack, cast an aggressive spell or shit of
Hostile and strike a foe - or the air.

ROUGH MAP
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
 XXX           X               XXXXX Deosil GateXX              XXXXXXXXXX
XXXX   XXXXXX      XXXX    XX  XXXXX      XXXXXXX   XX    XXXX      XXXXXX
XXX     XXXX     XXXXX   XX     XXXX         XX    XXX   XXXXX        XXXX
XXX    XXX     XXXXX    XXXXX   XXXXXX            XX    XXXXX         XXXXX
XXX    XXX      Tumulus XXXXXX              XXXXXXXX    XXXXX         XXXXX
XXX    XXX          X   XXXXXX       XXXX  XXXXXXXXXX   XXX            XXXX
XXX    XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX      XXXX   XXXXXXXXXX   XXXXX  XXXXXX  XXXX
XX     XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX    XXXX    XXXXXXXX     XXXXX    XXXXX  XXX
XX                                          XXXXXXXXXX   XXX             XXX
XXXXXX   XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX    XXXXXXXXX          XXXXXXXXXXX
XXXXXXX   XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX       XXXXXXXXXXX     XXXXXXXXXXX
XXXXXXX    XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX      XXXXXXXXXXXX    XXXXXXXXX
XXX                          Aedifice                                   XXX
XXX      XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX      XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX  EastmarchX
Westmarch XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX   XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX  CastleXXXX
XXXXCastle  XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX    XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX     XXXXXXXX
  XX       XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX    XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX       XXXXXXX
XXXXXX     XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX    XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX    XXXXXXX
XXXXX                    XXXXXXXXXX  XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX        XX
XXX      XXXXXXXXXXXXX     XXXXXXX    XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX         XXXX
 XX     XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX    XXXXXXX   XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX         XXXXXXX
XXX    XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX    XXXXXX    XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX          XXXXXX
XX     XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX    XXXXXX    XXXXXXXXXXXXXX           XXXXXXXXX
XX    XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX   XXXXXXX   XXXXXXXXX          XXXXXXXXXXXXXX
XX   XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX   XXXXXXX  XXXXXXXX    XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
XX   XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX   XXXXXX  XXX       XXXXXXXXXXXXNecropolis XXXX
  XX   GarthXXXXXXXXXXX                          XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX      XXX
XXX     XXX  XXXXXXXXXX    XXXXXXXXXXXXXX    XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX  XX
XXXXX   XXX   XXXXXXX    XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX    XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX  X
XX                     XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX                          X
XXXXXXX     XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
     XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
