   -------------------------------------------------------------
                 DISCOVERY-IN THE STEPS OF COLUMBUS

                              FULL MANUAL
                                          
                          SUPPLIED BY I.C.C 
 
                    TYPED IN BY--->> P.O.B.<<---  THE LOONS...


  PAGE 1 INTRODUCTION
  -------------------

 DISCOVERY THE STEPS OF COLUMBUS is a huge game of expolration and conquest
 set at the end of the 15th century. Travel of any sort in this era was 
 exciting dangerous and unpredictable, a fact beautifully recreated in this 
 simulation.

 First and foremost, your aim is to explore-to send ships out into the 
 unknown  seas and discover new lands. Then you must settle this lands, and 
 nurture  your fledgling outposts until you have a thriving and powerful 
 network of  territories.
 How you finance this growth is up to you. Trading, cultivating or stealing-
 the choice is yours.......

  OBJECTIVES
  ----------
  
 The general aims of the game are to discover and settle new land, and to 
 outdo the other exploring nations in terms of money and power. However, you
 can tailor the specifiec emphasis yourself at the start of the game and you
 can  choose between four objectives.........

 A FREE FOR ALL game continues until all the competitors but one have 
 been forced to withdraw from exploration, due to lack of funds ...

 ELDORADO option discovering that fabled city of gold is the aim......
 
 LAND RACE the power wich owns the most land in the new world 
 after 50 years wins ..........
 
 CASH RACE the criterionis profit.........


 PAGE 2 INTERFACE INTRODUCTION
 _____________________________
 
 The display you will see most of the time shows a picture of a small 
 section of the world and a scroll apon which are several icons....

 The game uses a simple point and click interface. There are two basic 
 modes in which the game can be: selecting and scrolling.......

 SELECTING MODE, the mouse pointer appears as an arrow. Generally moving it 
 over an icon and clicking the left mouse button will cause a 
 particular action to be performed..............

 SCROLLING MODE is used to move your current viewpoint around the world. The 
 mouse pointer appears as a magnifying glass. Trying to move the glass of 
 the edge of the map display will scroll the screen in that direction as far
 as you are allowed to go. The main display starts off showing you your home
 territory-the area from which European ships will set sail. Initially you
 can scroll the main screen display around a very limited area.
 At the end of every mounth you will be able to move into whichever
 parts of the globe have been explored by your ships..............
 The large arrows marked with flags which appear on the main display
 represent the starting points of the ships of the nations  competing in the
 game. Clicking on the right hand bottom on the generally terminates the 
 current mode or function-for example it will switch  you between scrolling 
 and selecting, or return you to the main screen...

 PAGE 3 PLAYING FOR THE FIRST TIME
 ---------------------------------
 The first time you play the game choose world 1 to explore. Straight away
 you will need to buy some ships, preferably adventures. 2 or 3 is a good
 number to start with. Select each ship for orders. And send them off
 (not all in the same direction) to discover what they can. Practice 
 finding them all using the binoculars next to the ship icon....
 After a while some of your intrepid explores should give the 
 (LAND AHOY) cry. You will be able to watch them piling out of the ship
 and staring to build a new home for themselves. The port building
 is the fist thing they will create. Even if you don't direct them, they
 will start to clear the area, thus creating timber. You can see how 
 much there is by using port cargo command. You need 3 units of wood
 to build something. As soon as this is available, use it if you see
 the natives or a rival port nearby. Build a fort, otherwise warehouses
 are a useful investment followed quickly by farms. If lots of your men 
 keep sinking in the swamps send somebody to dig the troubled area...
 The settlers will automatically start a to farm cleared land and you will 
 start to see the produce appearing around your port.Collect in your 
 warehouses...
 Now you need to sell these goods for that you need. A ship-a trader this
 time get one under construction at the port when it is ready and there
 is cargo to carry. Instruct it to trade later when you have lots to 
 trade. Build factories to create finished goods. You are on your way
 to economic domination of the world!

 PAGE 4 HOW TO PLAY THE GAME
 ---------------------------

  THESE ARE SEVERAL THINGS YOU SHOULD KEEP
   TRACK OF DURING THE GAME::::::::::::::::
 
 1. The state of the world :what has been discoverd and by whom.
 2. How well you are doing financially.
 3. Your fleet.
 4. Yuor ports throughout the world.
 5. What the settlers in and around these ports are up to.
 6. The goods which your settlers produce.
 7. Your competitors.

 THE STATE OF THE WORLD
 ----------------------

 ACTIVITY REVIEW(top left corner)
 Selecting the scroll icon at the top left of the main panel brings up a
 current affairs report. Every significant event is recorded here from ships 
 sinking to ports expanding as the scroll turns. However, old data disappears
 from view. It is possible to see the last 50 reports by clicking 
 on the up/down arrows..........

 MAPS (below the activity review)
 Below the scroll icon is the map. This brings up a display of the new
 world. By clicking on the small maps to the right you can change between
 this, and information on: population density ,an ancient understanding of 
 how the world looks and political control. However, at the start of the game
 all three of the maps will show grey fog indicting that the world beyond 
 the European region (the new world!) is unknown. The fog clears where
 your ships or settlers have explored. Even when you hit an Island, you will
 not know initialy whether you are on the tip of a great land mass or a 
 small island. When other nations make discoveries you will eventully hear 
 about them too. A delay of two years is inpossed to reflect the speed of
 the 15th century communication..........

 PAGE 5 PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY 
 -------------------------

 The first map will, once the fog has been cleared, give you an idea of the
 type of terrain that you have discoverd. It is a genuine topo graphical map
 with differnt colours denoting different land heights.
 It is important to build colonies where they can expand easily 
 and where there are plenty of forests, which will provide timber
 for building your first huts..........

 POPULATION
 ----------

 Whilst looking for somewhere to settle your people, it may be important to 
 see where everyone else has set up camps. This coupled with the other maps 
 should tell you where the best or most important land lies...........
 
  
 PAGE 6 POPULATION(cont)
 -----------------------

 Ancient chart. This is the only map which is fully available from the 
 start. It shows what people though the land over the hoizon might
 be like. It is only a rough guide so beware if ships get lost, they
 can loose morale, mutiny and become pirates.

 THE POLITICAL SCENE 
 -------------------
 In the race for discovery it is useful to have a map that shows the 
 exact extent of the unknown world and what has been found by which 
 country. If one is getting too far ahead you may deem it wise to attack
 either its colonies or its ships.................

 COMPETITORS 
 -----------
 Clink on the inn icon will show you relative success as compared with
 that of your opponents. Each figure in the scene represents one of 5
 active competitors the coin in front of them represents 100 gold pieces.
 Each a full pile is made up of 10 coins. By clicking on a figure you get 
 your spies report on that nation. This can tell you the opponents nation-
 ality, number of ships annual sales last year and even the number of ports..

 PAGE 7 LOANS
 ------------

 Capital can be gained through canny trading or by taking out a loan 
 from the bank. Be careful with loans though even if the interst rates
 look attractive. Now a downswing in the ecomony may change rates and
 you could find yourself disgraced in the debtors PRISON. Interest is
 charged mounthly and automatically deducted from your account......

 ACCOUNTS
 --------

 The top left of the bank icons allows you to see how effective your
 trading and general business has been over the years. First it 
 displays profit and loss data for the preceding year sales against
 purchases overheads and interest. It also keeps a running total of
 your profit /loss since the start of the game in the year 1490.....

 OUTGOINGS 
 ---------

 This icon is the arrow pointing away from the money pile. It lists
 the ships of your fleet and their costs for upkeep. It also displays
 the buildings in existence in all your ports and what their 
 maintainance costs amount to..............
  
 PRICES  
 ------

 The ship & goods icon shows the current market prices of raw materials
 and finished goods around the world. On this display each major trade 
 center  is represented by white circle. Click on one to have the prices 
 displayed. Also included is the price that would be fetched by each of
 the goods if they were sold locally. This is accessed with the circle at the
 extreme left of the screen. For more details on how to use this see below

    
 PAGE 8 SHIPYARD
 ---------------
 
 This is chosen from within the bank. The icon displays a ship under
 construction, and a workman with an axe it brings up a selection of
 of ships of varying size and abilities which may be purchased.
 Details of the class of vessel which the pointer is currently on appears
 at the bottom of the screen. Clicking on the ship type buys the ship...

 SHIPS 
 -----
 Unsurprisingly these are crucial to the game. New land is discovered by
 sending out ships (go way never) and trade goods are transported by
 them. There are 8 ships on the market divided into 3 classes. Each ship
 is rated in terms of purchase price, annual maintainance costs, gunnery
 power, tonage and cargo carryable and speed.........

           TYPE          COST  UPKEEP GUNS TONNAGE SPEED
           ---------------------------------------------  
           ADDVENTURER   40      1     2      8      4
                         60      2     4      12     3
           TRADER        30      1     1      20     2
                         50      2     2      40     2
                         80      2     4      60     1
                        100      3     6      80     1
           MAN O WAR    150      3     10     15     4
                        200      4     15     20     3
        
        when you buy a ship it will be allocated a suitable name?
 
 PAGE 9 KEEPING TRACK OF YOUR FLEET(the little ship)
 ---------------------------------------------------

 It is possible to see all times what any particular ship is
 doing. On the main screen scroll is picture of a ship. Below is
 it name of tour currently selected craft and below that this is action
 the vessel is performing .........
 Clicking on the ship gives you more details on the craft and allows
 you to give it new orders. You can select a new craft for inspection or
 command in two ways. Clicking on the two arrows next to the ship icon
 will step through your fleet one-by-one. Clicking directly on a ship
 on the sea or in the port will select it and display its details
 using the binoculars icon (next to arrows) homes in the currently 
 selected vessel. This is a fast way of moving around the discovered
 world and of locating your fleet.........
    
 SHIP COMMANDS
 -------------

 The ship icon gives you a choice of seven actions that you
 can set your currently vessel to perform...

 DISCOVER
 --------
 
 When ships are sent out on a mission of discovery you must
 specify a direction for them to travel in. They do this until
 an undiscovered land mass of reasonable size is sighted. A message
 will appear informing you of this event. A port is then founded
 automatically and a settlement can start to grow.......

 
 PAGE 10 SHIP COMMANDS(cont)
 ---------------------------
  
 CARGO - This icon shows what the craft is carrying. It can raw materials
 finished goods timber or even people........

 TRADE  - This is used to set up a regular trading route for a vessel.
 It brings up the trading map. Clicking on city displays its details at
 the bottom of the screen. When you find a suitable destination for your
 vessel, right click to escape the trade screen.The city you last choose
 becomes the ships destination. To cancel left click over the compass.
 Your ship will automatically load up with cargo and sail for the chosen
 destination. It will take cargo that has a high price at the target point.
 The goods are sold in major markets of the old world not at other new
 settlements so the ship will head for Europe. You will be able to follow
 it as far as the aarow/flag indicating the European starting point
 for your ships. It will then continue its journey out of your view.
 After a time the ship will complete its journey the return

 ANCHORAGE
 ---------

 Once you have clicked on this option, you must click again on the
 port or place that you wish the ship to stop at. If anchored at one
 of your ports a ship refit is automatically carried out. This
 repairs damage, replaces cannon lost in battle and restores morale.


 PAGE 11 SHIP COMMANDS(cont)
 ---------------------------

 PATROL if there are many traders playing a particular route, pirates
 will surely follow. This may be the time to protect your ships with a 
 man-o- war. On set patrol route having selected this option you have to
 click on the main display up to 4 times and exit with a right click, or
 the current ship will sail around these points indefinitely...

 ROUTE
 -----
 By placing markers at certain points in the same way as a patrol is
 set up, it is possible to direct your ships route very precisely. This 
 may be to avoid the haunts of pirates or just to call in at differant
 ports along the coastline. Unlike a patroling craft, a ship will stop
 when it has completed its route....

 ATTACK  - When funds are low you may like raiding a few ships in order to
 bring in some revenue. Select this option click on your intended
 target then sit back and watch as your vessel homes in. Sea-battles
 are described in the combat section.....

 HOSTILE VESSELS - The high seas of the 15th century were a place for the 
 faint hearted even when countries were not at war with their neighbours. 
 There were always pirates around on the lookout for a heavy laden trading 
 ship. These traders were usually lightly armed vessels that could not put 
 up much of a fight..........

 MORALE - The spirits of a ship crew/settlers must be kept high or trouble 
 will occur if the ship morale drops to 0% Then the crew will mutiny, take 
 over the ship and raise the Jolly Roger. Then they will attack other vessels.
 
 PORTS - When land is discoverd a port will automatically be established 
 and people off-loaded from your ship the settlers are moved to the port
 building they emerge from here slowly. There are two purposes. 
 1. The cleared land is automaticaly turned over to agriculture so 
 supplies of food should soon start to appear......
 2. Produce wood which you will need to make buildings ........
 
 PAGE 12 EXAMING YOUR PORTS 
 --------------------------
 
 You can find out exacly is associated with each port by clicking on the 
 port building. All the assets will be replaced by flags representing the
 ports allegiance. If you click on an individual building, it will be 
 shown as a flag for a short. While the port icon appears below the ship
 icon on the main screen scroll, orders and inspection work just as with
 that section the commands you give the port are different to the 
 commands you give to the ship.........

 CARGO - This shows what goods have been produced in the settlement.
 There will only be goods warehouses have been built and have
 not been sacked by raiders. A warehouse can hold up to 32 units 
 of cargo. Different types of goods will be displayed if a factory
 has been used to turn the raw materials into finished products.
 You will often get a better price for finished goods than 
 raw materials so it may be worth investing in factories..........

 SETTLE  - This option lets determine the direction in which you
 would like the settlers from that port to progress by choosing
 a previously unknown area. You can speed up both the 
 development and the exploration.........

 PUT-MAN  - This will send a man from the port building outside ready
 for work. If there are no-settlers in the building nothing will
 happen. It is generally used when you need some-one for a specific 
 mission and there is no-one outside that you can spare.........

 BUILD  - There are several types of building which you can construct.
 Each brings different advantages to the settlement so it useful a good
 mix of each type. These advantages are explained seperatly.........

 DEMOLISH - This can be used to move any object from a church to a port.
 The upkeep of the building is then obviously no longer paid if funds
 are low and the resources could be better used elsewhere. It may be
 sometimes be necessary to up-root entire settlements and move on....
 
 SHIPYARD - When this option is chosen a ship type is selected and a 
 vessel built at the port. Each ship requires 3 units of wood.
 When it is ready you can load up with goods and sail off to start
 trading...........

 SELL GOODS - This will sell cargo from port locally. Local prices 
 tend to be very poor but the cash comes in immediately.......

 BUILDING  - A building requires 3 units of wood to create. When you
 choose the port command build you are given a list of possible 
 buildings having chosen one you must click on the side of the 
 construction after a while a man will appear with a log go to the
 designated plot of land and after digging the foundations will
 will use the wood to construct a building...........

 WAREHOUSE - These allow you to store and collected produce if you
 have no warehouse space the goods can not be stored so obviously as
 your number of warehouses increase the amount of goods that can be stored 
 there does too. Goods produced when there is no storage space for them 
 are lost.........

 FACTORY  - Once you have grown or harvested any produce and stored in the 
 warehouse it is possible to transfer it to a factory where it can
 be turned into finished goods........

 FARM these are vital to long term survival on the colony.....

 FORT the construction of a fort should be one of the first jobs for the 
 colonist when the fort is finished it will produce soldiers they 
 prtect the colony from the natives ..........
 
 
