Q: I installed Myst, but when I click on "Enter Myst" it goes to black screen 
A: Make sure you choose AGA or CGFX screenmode your computer supports.

Q: What is the recommended resolution for Myst 
A: 640 x 480. If you have an AGA with slower CPU, you may want to use 640 x 512 
to gain speed, since Productivity mode on AGA Amigas is slow. 

Q: Do I have to choose the resolution each time I run Myst? 
A: No. Choose it once and Myst will save it to HD. 

Q: Myst crashes in the middle of playing...
If Myst crashes please use the SetPatch provided in this directory, by copying it
to C: directory on your Hard Drive. You may also want to download the latest 
version from Amiga International web site file section (www.amiga.de).

Q: IconX on Workbench screen reports it can't find a lot of files
When you run Myst Workbench screen will open up a window that will log all the Myst 
action including "qt: file not found". Do not panic! This is only the log action, 
and it's a part of Myst operation. This DOES NOT mean that Myst can not find files at all, 
it only means that particular file is not located on your HD. Myst will then load it 
from the CD. There is no need to copy the rest 300 Mb of movie files to your hard drive 
in order for the message not to appear. A message "!!! can not find ... !!!" would mean 
that movie or sound couldn't be found on CD either, and would only happen if you were to 
take the CD out of the drive. 

Q: Does CGFX update work with Picasso96 software?
CyberGraphX update is exactly what its name suggests - a Myst code for CyberGraphX 
compatible video boards. For it to work you should have the CyberGraphX software 
installed (latest version preferred). 
However, Villagetronic released the latest version of Picasso96 and they fixed the bug 
that was causing incompatibility with Myst. Therefore Myst should now fully work with P96, 
and we'd like to thank Villagetronic for that.
So, if you are a P96 user, get the latest version and enjoy Myst. 
Note: we will still be testing Myst under P96, and if there are any additional problems 
we might have to release a P96 version of the code. 

Q: What about 16-bit CGFX modes?
CGFX Myst gives you an option to run it on 8 or 24-bit screen. 8-bit is graphically 
identical to AGA, while 24-bit displays movies without any dithering. There is no 
16-bit CGFX version, and there won't be one. If your video board runs 24-bit modes poorly, 
please use 8-bit.