                      Badland Pete

Instructions -

The Governor`s face bore a worried frown as he re-read the letter scrawled
on notepaper that have been delieved wrapped around a rock. His beloved
daughters had been abducted by the not so savoury inhabitants of the
badlands territories. If he wanted to see them again a ransom was to be
paid...... but the govenor had other ideas.

Into his office stalked Pete Coyote, known thoughout the west as Badlands
Pete. His quick fire two-handed gun style and steely glare are recognised
and feared by desperados everywhere. "I`ve got a new job for you PETE". It`s
time we showed those folk in the `lands that we mean business.  PETE looked
at the Govenor coldy from under the brim of his hat and asked "OK, but
what`s in it for me?"

"Alright PETE I'll pay the full bounty on anyone who gets in your way, but
the town folk may offer a bounty on your head in return". PETE looked
straight at the govenor "Not good enough Governor, the risks outweigh the
reward. How about five thousand dollars for every daughter I send home
alive?". "Have a heart Pete, how about two and a half?  You know  how many
girls I`ve raised!" PETE gave a cygnical smile. "In gold govenor, I want it
in gold". With that Pete turned on his heels and walked from the office.
The Govenor rose from behind his desk and crossed to the window. As he
looked towards the BADLANDS he wondered whether the people out there
realized what was coming.

Introducing STRIP-A-MATION

You can move the characters behind or in front of any objects.

Joystick Controlls :

Push joystick left-right-up-down for moving the character. Press fire or
space to draw the gun and start shooting. Now you can move the gun in this
mode and press fire to shoot. Press SPACE to re-holster the gun.

KEYS :

SPACE-bar - draw or re-holster gun
Keypad 0  - Pause or restart
F3        - toggle 50/60Hz frame rate
F10       - Disable/enable sound FX

 Now some infos of the main game >:

Daughter :

Every level have a corresponding number of kidnapped daughter.
These are displayed at the status PANEL.

Wanted Posters :

At the start you can see the most wanted persons on a poster.

GAMEPLAY :

Get the most money for entering the highscore

GAME END :

The game ENDs when you lost all the energy.

Some HINTS `N` TIPS :

    - Aiming and shooting : close quarter gunplay is not always
       the most accurate. If you have trouble hitting enemies that
       are close by, then try backing off or moving into or out
       of the screen.

    - Choosing Targets : if you are uncertain of a character`s
       intentions, watch and wait to see if he (or she) draws his
       / her gun , offers a bonus object or ignores Pete before
        he blazed away with his guns.

    - Travelling between Towns : Riding on trains rather than walking is
      much easier on PETE`s health. Tickets for the journey can be found
      during gameplay. Without a ticket you will not be allowed onto the
      station platform.

 by Endless Piracy :
