                       _____     __   __   _________     _____
                       \___.\\  / /  / // / __  __ .\\  /.___.\\
                          / // / /  / // / / / / /  // /  \_/ //
                   _     / // / /  / // / /  \/ /  // /  ____//
                  /.\___/ // /. \_/ // /. \    /  // /. //
                  \______//  \_____//  \__/    \_//  \_//
 
                                  PRESENTS
  
             T H E   H A R P O O N   S C E N A R I O   E D I T O R

                           Typed In By The Ringthane

                          ... Call The JUMP Boards ...
 
       Harpoon ................  1 404 739 6908 ..........  WHQ U.S.A.  
       Invisible Crime ........ +49 621 705 485 ..........  HQ  Germany  
       Another World .......... +46 480 881 00  ..........  HQ  Sweden   
       Jolly Roger ............ +49 631 588 62  ..........  HQ  Germany  
   

I Your Role In Scenario Editor

Section A * The Computer Opponent
 
In Scenario Editor,your primary role is that of the "brains" behind the
computer opponent.You supply the mission objectives and long term strategic
planning that the computer opponent is to carry out.You can rely on the 
computerto carry out attacks (including air strikes from base) against all
newly detected units. The only exception is bases,which are stationary,
known targets.It is your responsibility to configure attacks aganist the
computer opponent's bases in Scenario Editor yourself.

Hint: to set up potential strikes aganist surface and submarine unit, you
may want to station a long-distance air patrol in the vicinity of the target
gruop.This will reduce prosecution time if the lauching base is substantially 
far away from the target. (Most mainland Soviet bases fall into this category.)
Just be careful to station this patrol where it won't be easily detected!

Section B * Playing Both Sides

In Scenario Editor, it will be necessary for you to give orders for both the
Blue and the Red sides.These orders will be carried out by the computer opponent
when playing aganist a user,and most orders will be ignored when the user is
playing that side, forcing him to supply his own. All that will remain for the
user are the group and units, and their initial movement orders, including
starting points,paths,initial speeds, and formation patrols.

Section C * The Difference Between a BattleSet and a Scenario

Before editing your own scenarios, it is important to understand the difference
between a BattleSet and a scenario. A BattleSet constists of the maps,data,
pictures, and even songs that represent the area and nations involved in a
related set of naval conflicts. These naval conflits are referred to as scena-
rios, and they draw upon the data contained in the BattleSet. This BattleSet
data is kept in a highly compressed format; uncompressed, it requires roughly
2-3 megabytes of disk space. A scenario, on the other hand, is very small,
seldom exceeding 10KB of disk space. Hence, in Scenario Editor, tou will be 
"editing" the way the BattleSet data will be used, rather than the data itself.

We realize that many of you would like to modify the actual platforms in the
database, and this featur may be included in future releases. But for now,
enjoy the challenge of putting together scenarios, using one of the most
sophsticated and comprehensive naval databases available to the public:
Larry Bond's widley acclaimed Harpoon database.

II. Meun Items

Section A * Game Menu

Change Battlesets--- Allow you to edit scenarios for a different BattleSet
Adialog will come up verifying that you are finished editing the current scena-
rio.If you have made any changes to your current scenarios, you will be given
a chance to save it. Unless you choose "Cancel" from the dialog, the next scre-
en you will see is the familiar "BattleSet Selection" screen, where you may
choose to laod any of the battlesets you have purchased. Selecting "OK" at
this point brings you back to the Scenario Editor main screen eith an empty
scenario.

New Scenario-- Allows you to restart with an empty scenario.

As with Change BattleSet, you will first be presented with a verification
dialog - this is your one chance to cancel. (Again, you will be able to save
any changes you have made to your current scenario.)

Edit User Scenario-- Allows you to edit previously saved scenarios.

After verifying that you wish to quit your current scenarios, the "Edit User
Scenario" screen will appear. At the top of the screen, you will see the path
of your current directory, followed by a box labeled "Edit:". Under this box 
appears a scroll box listing all of the subdirectories and scenario files in
your current directory. You may use the ""Change Directory" button to view one
of these directories. (NOTE: the special directory ".." indecates the parent 
directory of your current working directory.) You may view the contents of an-
other disk drive by selecting the "Change Drive" button. This will bring up a
scroll box containing your currently active disk drives, listed by drive letter
and volume label. Floppy drives will not be listed unless they have a diskette
properly inserted with the drive door closed. Selecting a drive will show you
its cntents in the scroll box. By using the "Change Directory"/ "Change Drive"
Buttons together, you will be able to edit scenarios from any directory on
any drive that your machine has access to. When you have selected a scenario,
its name will appear in the "Edit:" box. Selecting the "Edit" button will
return you to the Scenario Editor main screen with the selected scenario loaded
and ready to edit.

Edit BattleSet Scenario--Allows you to load scenarios from your current Battle-
Set.

After verifying that you wish to quit your current scenario, a screen will app-
ear that similar to the Harpoon "Scenario Selectin" screen, The top scroll box
allows you to select a scenario, and the bottom scroll box displays the orders
for that scenario.

Since editing a scenario involves creating units and orders for BOTH sides, the
"xxxx Orders" button allows you to  display the orders for either side.
Ths "BattleSets" button will allow you to load scenarios from another BattleSet.
This is functionally equivalent to using the Change BattleSet command from Game
Menu. (Note: this does not allow you to transfer scenarios from one BattleSet
to another.) Selecting "OK" will load a copy of the selected scenario for edit-
ing. When you save changes to this scenario, it will be saved as a 'user 
scenario', and you will have to use 'Edit user Scenario' to load it in the 
future. When editing a battleset scenario, you will not actually be modifying
the batlleset itself. These battleset scenarios are provided as a starting
point, and as examples of completed scenarios.

Save Scenario - Allows you to save current scenario.

This command will bring up a screen very similar to 'save game' in Harpoon.
As with 'edit user scenario', you will be able to 'navigate' your available 
disk drives using the 'change dir' and 'change drive' commands. Selecting a
scenario from the scroll box or entering a new name with the 'save file as' 
command will make the name appear in the 'Save: ' box, and will activate the 
'save' button. Selecting the 'save' button will save your current scenario
and return you to the editor main screen. If you attempt to save over an 
existing scenario, a dialog box will appear to confirm this action.

Enter Game Time Limit - Allows you to enter time limit for the current scenario.

A dialog will appear in the lower right corner of the screen, allowing you to
input the number of days and hours to be allowed for this scenario. If a time
has already been entered, the dialog will come up with this time: otherwise
it will come up all zeros. Selecting OK will cause the 'TO Go' time in the 
upper right corner of the main screen to be reset with the time you have 
entered.

Enter Victory Conditions-allows you to edit Victory conditions for both sides.

This coomand will bring up a window in the lower half of the screen containing
a scroll box and four buttons, ADD EDIT DELETE OK. If no victory conditions
have been entered for this scenario, the scroll box will be empty and the
edit and delete buttons will be disabled. Selecting the ADD button will
bring up a dialog box. This dialog will allow you to set the parameters for
a single victory condition. These parameters are as follows:

The first line of the victory conditions dialog allows you to choose whether
you want this victory condition to be minimum or total. Minimum victory is
the conditon that a player must meet to minimally complete a mission. After
a player has met minimum victory conditions, he can either quit the game or go
for "total victory". Total victory is the complete defeat of the enemy, beyond
merely carring out orders. Note that one side'svictory conditions may not be
exclusive of the other side's victory conditions. Thus in a typical scenario,
both sides can meet their victory conditions, minimum and total. In this case,
the side reaching victory first is declared the winner.

The next line asks you which side this victory conditions is for. The third
line lets you choose whether this victory condition must be meet for victory
(ANDed: a necessary condition), or whether meeting this victory conditon will
independently result in victory (ORed: a sufficent condition). This choice will
determine how a victory condition will interact with others. For
example, the minimum victory condition for the NATO side might be: sink 3
Soviet ships AND sink 2 Soviet subs. Both of these conditions must be met in 
order for victory. These groupings apply to the victory conditions of the same
level (minimum or total) and side (Blue or Red). In other words, all of the 
blue minimum conditons are grouped, etc. It is not a good idea to mix AND"s
and OR's in the same grouping, for reasons explained in the "Hints For Enter-
ing Victory Conditions" section.

The next option determines the level of categorization for the victory con-
dition, from "Type", the broadest level, to "Class", the most narrow level.
These levels will be used to determine what kinds of units will be included
in the victory condition.

Type- the victory condition will apply to "all" of one type of unit: all
carriers, all ships, all subs, etc.

Broad type- allows a more refined choice such as "all large carriers",
"all medium combat ships","all primary bases."

Subtype- allows categorization by subtypes of units. For carriers, shios, and
subs, it is the naval designation, such as "CV", "DDG", "FF", "SSN", etc.
For planes and helos, the breakdown is by "Fighter", "ASW", "Bomber", etc.
For bases, the categories are "Base","port", and "airfirld".

Class- the most narrow category. For everything but bases, this denotes a
particular class (such as Nimitz class carrier, O.H. perry class frigate, F-15
class aircraft, etc.). For bases, it means a particular base (such as Keflavik,
Iceland, or London, UK).

After you have chosen the categorization level of the victory condition, you
must select which type of unit will be included in the category (Carrier,ship,
sub,ect), before you can choose the actual category. If you have selected the
"Type" level of categorization, you are finished with this step. If you have 
chosen one of the other levels, however, the second button at the bottom of
the dialog will activate to let you choose the actual category.If your level
of categorization is "Broad type", a scroll box will appear listing the pre-
defined broad-type categories for that type of unit. If your level of categ-
orization for that type of unit (for bases it will be a dialog). And finally,
if you choose "Class" as you level of categorization, a scroll box listing
available classes for that unit type will appear. (NOTE; in the above scroll
boxes, carriers and ships will share categories, as will helos and planes.)

Once you have chosen your category, you will be given the opportunity to select
whether the condition is to be a "friendley on-station" condtion or an "enemy
damage/kill" condition. You do this by checking the "On-station" checkbox on
or off(default). If you do not choose on-station, you will proceed to the dam-
age/kill text boxes. The damaged and killed boxes
work as follows: to translate "kill 3 enemy ships or damage 5 enemy ships at 
60%", you would enter "60" in the "Percent Damage" box, "5" in the "Number 
Killed" box zereod. (NOTE: When Harpoon checks victory conditions,"killed"
ships also satisfy the "damaged" victory condition). If you select the on-
station type victory condition, the "Percent/Number Damaged" boxes will be dis-
abled,the "Number KIlled" box will change to "Number On Station", and the 
"Time On Station" box and the "Enter Rect" button will be activated.
"Number On Station" refers to the number of friendly units that must be on-
station area. The "Enter Rect" button brongs up a dialog that allows you to
define the on-station area as two opposite points in a rectangle on the Group
Map (you will be able to scroll and zoom the map).

Once you have completed all of the above steps, selecting "OK" wil return you
to the Victory Conditions Edit window, where you will be albe to add more
conditions or edit or delete already existing conditions. The "Edit" button
brings uo the sanme dialog as before, with the selections filled in. The
"Delete" button deletes the currently selected victory conditions (after
a confirmation dialog). "OK" quits from the victory conditions edit window.

Please refer to "Victory Conditions Walk-THrough" section of this manual for
more information and examples.

Section B * Groups Menu

Create New Group - allows you to create surface and sub groups.

First a dialog will appear, asking you to select the groups side. Next,
you will be asked to position the group on the map. Next, a screen will
appear that will allow you to edit the groups units. You will be able to add
surface and sub units to the group, and add planes and helicopters to the 
carrier and ship units that can carry them. To add a surface unit, select 'ship'
from the 'unit type'scroll box. The 'class' scroll box will list the carrier
and ship classes available for the group's chosen side. Select one of these
classes and press the "Add Unit" button. You will then be asked to select a 
name from the list of available ships commissioned for this class in the
BattleSet's area of the world. As you choose a name, it will be removed
from the list to prevent duplicating an already existing unit. After you have
choosen the unit's name, you will be asked for it's probability of inclusion
in the scenario(the default is 100¼). Once you select"OK", the new will
appear in the "Group's Unit List" scroll box. Submarine units are entered
in the same way, except that you must first choose "sub" from the "Unit Type"
scroll box. To add a plane to a surface unit, first select the unit in the
'Groups Unit List' Scroll box. Next select 'aircraft' from the 'Unit Type'
scroll box, and the list of planes and helicopters able to be carried by
the selected unit will appear in the 'Class' scroll box on the lower right.
Select the aircraft you wish to add to the unit and press the 'Add Plane'
button. You will be asked to enter the number of aircraft to add. The max
allowable aircraft will appear in the text box. Iff you add more than the
maximum, you will get the maximum. If you enter zero no planes will be added.
Once you have selected the number of planes, you will be asked for the 
probability of their inclusion in the scenario. Creative use of this procedure
will enable you to automatically vary the strength of each sides air assets
each time a user plays a scenario. Some units will have their helicopters
added automatically. These aircraft will be displayed for informational
purposes, but you will not be able to delete them or give them orders,
including formation patrols. Harpoon handles these aircraft automatically
for the enemy, to spare the scenario creator the tremendous overhead of
dealing with them.

You may delete units or user-added planes by selecting them in the 'unit'
scroll box and hitting 'delete'. You may get platform display reports on 
units or plands in the group by selecting them in the 'Groups Unit List'
scroll and then selecting the 'display' button. Exiting the platform
display will return you to the 'edit group' screen. Selecting the 'display'
button when the 'unit type' or 'class' scrolls are active will bring up 
platform display for the currently selected class in the class scroll.
You may also edit the group's formation by selecting the "Formation Editor"
button. Formation Editor doffers slightly from the one in Harpoon, and 
will be explained in the "Orders Menu" description. Finally selecting 
"Exit" will prompt you for the group's probability of inclusion and will
return you to the Scenario Editor main screen.

Create New Base- Allows you to create a new base group.

As with "Create New Group", the first thing you'll be prompted for is the
base's sids. Next,a window containing a scroll box and two buttons will
appear in the lower half of the screen. The scroll box will list that side's
available bases. As you select a base from the scroll box, the map will
scroll to show you the base's postion on the group map. Selectin "OK"
will choose the selected base and take you to the "Edit Group" screen (see
"Create New Group".) You will notice that, this time, the Group's unit list"
scroll will not be empty, but will contain the base as the first unit in the
list. You may not, however, delete the base or display it. You may only add
aircraft to "airfield" type bases, or ships and subs to "port" type bases.
You may add either to "base" type bases.(NOTE: it is not recommended that
you add ships and subs to base groups, since the computer opponent will
not make use of these assets.) Everything else works the same way as the
"New Group" command, except that you will not be asked for the base's
probability of inclusion-they are more or less "fixtures" in the scenario.

Change Gropu Postion- THis command allows you to repositon a group or base
using the "Postion Group" dialog as described in "Create New Group".

You will have the capability bases because we recognize that some of their
postions are not optimal. This will also allow you little more straegic
flexability.
 
Edit Group/Base- Allows you to edit and display a group's unit list. Brings
up the "Edit Gruop" screen as described in "Create New Base", with the units
that have already been added listed in the "Gruop's Unit LIst" scroll.

Delete Gruop/Base- Allows you to delete a group that has already been created.

After selecting "Yes" to a confirmation dialog, the group, all of its units,
and its orders will be flushed from the scenario.(CAUTION; There is no "un-
delete" command; this change will be permanent.)

Section C * Orders Menu

This menu contains the orders from Harpoon. Please refer to you Harpoon manual
for the basic operatins of these menu items. What follows is a summary of the
difference between the Scenario Editor Orders Menu and the Harpoon Orders Menu.

Attack

"Attack" works similarly to Harpoon, except for two major differences. First,
you will only be able to order attacks against base targets, since the computer 
opponent automatically handles all other attacks. Second, you will be asked for
weapons allocation, since this also is handled by the computer opponent.

Set Speed- No Difference

Enter Group Course

There have been several changes/improvements to this order(also referred to as
Path Editor), including the ability to "Cancel" changes made to the original
path, as well the ability to "Revert" to the original path without exiting
from Path Editor. Other additional features include: the ability to edit attack 
and launch aircraft orders, the ability to enter alternate paths (see the 
Orders2 Menu), and the ability to access commands from the Setting Menu, such
as grid lines and game icons.

Formation Editor

There are a few subtle but important differences between the Scenario Editor
version of FOrmation Editor, and that of Harpoon in Harpoon, you use FOrmation
Editor to order ships, and subs to move to a new location within the group, 
and to set air patrols. When you exit Formation Editor, the ships and subs
start moving from their current locations to their new locations, and the
aircraft begin lauching for their patrols. In Scenario Editor, when you exit
the Formation Editor, the ships will be located where you placed them-
"magically" translocated to their new position within the group. This will
be unit's relative starting location when your scenario is played. Air patrols
in Formation Editor will not be immediatley launched, as they are in Harpoon.
Instead, the scenario will "remember" to launch the patrols at game startup.
Another item you may have noticed are the asterisks that appear next to some
of the units in the scroll box. This indicates that the unit has not yet been
placed in the formation circle. As soon as you place the units, the asterisk
will disappear.

Ready Aircraft

Use the "Ready Aircraft" command to initialize the la\oadouts for the aircraft
you have added to the scenario. The aircraft will be "readied" immediatley,
and will have this loadout at scenario startup when Harpoon is run.(CAUTION;
changing loadouts for aircraft whose patrols or strikes have already been
assigned will cancel these orders.)

Launch Aircraft

Works identically to Harpoon, with a few minor changes. When you select "OK"
to accept your launch orders, you will be asked for a time delta; this will
allow you to delay lauching until a given amount of time has passed. In this
way, you can coordinate the computer opponent's air strikes as you would if
you were playing Harpoon. Also, as with formation air patrols, your orders
will not be carried ouy by Scenario Editor itself, but will be "remembered" in
your scenario to be executed during Harpoon play.

Join Group

Use "Join Group"in Scenario Editor to transfer all of the units from one group
into another. These units will have to be repositioned in their new group
using Formation Editor.

Split Group

Use "Split Group" in Scenario Editor to split units off from a group to form
one group into another.These units will have to be repositioned in their new
group using Formation Editor.

Sensors- Works identically to Harpoon.

Edit Staff Note- Works identically to Harpoon.

Section D * Orders Menu

ENter Alternate Path- This command allows you to enter forks in the group's 
path.This command can only be accessed through Path Editor (Enter Group Course).
To enter an alternate path from Path Editor, use the "Prev" and "next" buttons
to positon the leg marker on the path point at which you want the "fork" to
originate. If you do not have a mouse, use the "Add Order" button or the Escape
Key to access the "Enter Alternate Path" command under the Orders2 Menu. If you
do have a mouse, simply access the menu as you would from the main screen.

When you have selected the "Enter Alternate Path" command, the group's path
will be redrawn without the path points that come after the marked point.

Once this is done, you may edit the group's "new" course as before, with one 
exception: you will not be able to edit points that came before the fork's
originating point.

When you select "OK" to the alternate path, you will be asked for the fork's
probability (ie. the percent chance that the group will take this fork). The
group's course will then be restored to its state before you began entering
the alternate path. If you look in the "Orders" box to the left, the words
"Alternate Path" will appear, designating the fork you just entered.

You may then edit or dlete this "order" like any other. If you choose to edit  
your alternate path, the group's course will be redrawn to show the alternate
path you have already entered. When you have finished editing, selecting "OK"
will save your changes and allow you to reassign the fork's probability. And,
once again, you will return to editing the group course at the point where
you left. (NOTE:You may have more than one alternate path order at any one 
path point and you may also add an alternate path to an alternate path.)

Enter Variable Start Points- This command allows you to enter alternate start-
ing points for a group.

Upon selecting this command, you will be presented with a half screen window
containing a scroll box and buttons. Above the scroll box will be a box labeled
"Default Starting Point:", followed by a percentage. This refers to probability
that the group will start where it is located on the map. As you enter variable
starting points, this percentage will decrease accordingly.

To enter a variable starting point, select the "Add" button. A dialog will ap-
pear that is very similar to the one used to position the group originally. If
you do not have a mouse, use the arrow keys to position the cross-hairs at the
desired point and press the Enter Key to accept. If you do have a mouse,simply
click in the Group Map until starting point's placement(the starting point will
appear as a "dimmed" square), and select "OK" to accept. Another dialog will
follow, asking for the probability that the group will start at this point.
If you enter a value grater than the default percentage, then your starting
points percentage will be the default percentage minus one. If you enter zero
or less for the probability, the probablity will be reset to one. In this way,
the system prevents you from entering starting points that will never occur, or
from your cumulative percentage be other than 100%. You may edit a starting 
point by selecting it in the scroll box (a square will be drawn around it on
the Group Map), and selecting the "Edit" button. The edit procedure is the same
as the add procedure.

You may also delete starting points using the "Delete" button (a confirmation
dialog will appear). Finally, selecting the "OK" button will let you exit from
the "Edit Variable Start Points" interface.

Grant Nuclear Release- Allows you to set a time for each side to be granted
nuclear release.
(NOTE: If you do not grant nuclear release for a side, it will not be given
in your scenario unless the player overrides the system and grant himself 
nuclear release.)

First you must choose the side to be granted nuclear release. Next you will
need to provide the time point in the scenario at which you would like
nuclear release to occur (the "time delta"). You may also enter a variation on
this time (this translates to "time plus or minus varation %"). If you enter
100%, nuclear release will occur any time from game setup to twice the "time
delta" you entered.

You may only enter one nuclear release order per side. If you select the
"Grant Nuclear Release" command for a side that has already been given this
order, you willl merely be editing the existing order.

The orders will be shown one side at a time. To edit the other side's orders,
select the "Change Side" button. If orders appear in the scroll box, you may
"edit" or "delete" them. If you choose "Edit", the appropriate interface for 
entering that order will appear, with the formation you have already supplied
filled in for you. When you exit that interface, you will be returned to the
"Edit Orders" interface. As usual, you may delete the currently selected
order by selecting the "Delete" button and selecting "Yes" to the confirmation
dialog that follows.

Section E * Setting Menu

All of the Setting menu commands work the same as in Harpoon, Except the "Set
Land Color" is now its own menu item.

Section F * Misc Menu

Analyze Scenario- This command allows you to check your scenario in four key
areas:
1) How much memory the scenario will take when run from Harpoon.
2) The relative strengths of the two opposing sides.
3) Whether any group's movement orders will cause any of its run aground.
4) Whether your scenario has all of the components of a complete Harpoon 
   scenario.

When you select the "Analyze Scenario" command, a full screen window will come
up containing a large scroll box and eight buttons. The four buttons on the 
left will be used to access the analysis features mentioned above.

Estimate Memory

This feature will evaluate the relative postures of both sides, both offensive
and defensive. Tip to save memory- it does not cost to include two ships of the
same class as it does to include two ships from two different classes.

Check Group Movement

This feature checks each unit in evey group against that group's movement
orders, including paths, alternate paths, and variable starting points. If
any units are aground at any of these points, you will be notified.

Check Completeness

This will check to make sure that your scenario contains every element of a
complete scenario. These elements include: at least one group per side, at 
least one unit per group, and at least one total and one minimum victory
condition per side. It will also give warnings about other missing but optional
elements, such as uclear release, varialbe starting points, alternate paths,
planes on carriers, etc.

Do Complete Analysis

Thiscommand is equivalent to selecting all of the above buttons at once. This
allows bypass pressing each button if yu want the complete analysis.

Save to File

This command allows you to save the contents of the scroll box to a text file
called ANALYSIS.TXT.


Save to Print
 
This command allows you to print the contents of the scroll

Rename Unit- Allows you to rename ships,subs, or carrier units, using the same
scroll box that is used to name these units originally.(NOTE: YOu select a unit
in the Unit Window for this item to be activated.)

Calc Range and Bearing- Same as Harpoon.

III Additional Help

Section A * Victory Conditions Walk-Through

If you have not already done so, you may want to review the section entitled
"Enter VIctory Conditons". Select "Enter VIctory Conditions" from the "Game"
menu. A window will appear in the lower half of the screen containing a scroll
box and four buttons. If no victory conditions have been entered, the scroll
box will be empty. Select the "Add" button, using either the "A" key or your
mouse. A large dialog will appear in the center of your screen, titled "Victory
Conditions".

Example #1- "For the Blue Side to achive minimum victory, it must destroy at
least five enemy ships."

Select the following dialog items:
"Minimum Victory","Blue Side","ANDed","Type"

Once you selected "type", the six type choices will be activated. Choose 
"Ships", move down to the "Numbered Killed" text-edit box, and enter "5".
Now select "OK".

Example #2- "For the RedSide to achieve minimum victory, it is sufficient
fot it to get three of its subs on-station south of Iceland for a minimum of
two hours."

Select the following dialog items:
"minimum Victory","Red Side","ORed","Type","Subs","On station"

The "Number KIlled" edit box will change to the "Number On Station", and the
"Time On Station" box will be activated. Enter"3" for the "Number On Station"
and "2" in the "hours" box next to "Time On Station".

Once this is dine, select the "enter Rect" button to enter the area that is be
considered "on station." A new dialog will appear, prompting you to enter two
opposite corners of your onstation area rectangle.

If you do not have a mouse, use ypur arrow keys to move the cross hairs to a
point near the bottom of Iceland(the map will automatically scroll the cross-
hairs near the edge); if you do have a mouse, use the map scrolling buttons to 
positiom the map so that Southern Iceland is showing on the group map. We are
about to draw a rectangle representing the waters south of Iceland. If you have
a mouse, simply click on two points that will represent the onstation area;
otherwise, you must move the cross-hairs to the desired points and press
"Enter". If you are not satisfied with the selected on-station area, you 
may select "Start Over" to repeat this process. Once you select "OK", you
will return to the "Victory Conditions" dialog. You are now finished entering
this victory condition, so select "OK" to accept it.

Example #3- "In order to achive minimum victory, it is necessary for the Blue
Side to destroy ten(10) ASW aircraft."

Select the following dialog items:
"Minimum Victory","Blue Side","ANDed","Subtype"

After you select "Subtype", you will be able to select a type. You must select
a type so the dialog wil know which subtypes to display. Select "Aircrft",
then select the "Subtype" button at the bottom of the dialog. A scroll box
will appear, listing the available subtypes for all aircraft. Choose "ASW"
and press "OK". The words "Subtype:ASW" will appear beneath the "Type"
categories in the Victory Conditions Dialog. You will notice that the
"Percentage Damage" and "Number Damaged" boxes will be dimmed. This is due
to the fact that the aircraft cannot be damaged in Harpoon, only "killed".
Enter "10" in the "Number KIlled" box and select "OK".

If you combined thiss victory condition with the first Blue minimum condition,
it translate to "In order to achieve minimum victory, the Blue SIde must de-
stroy at least five enemy ships and 10 enemy ASW aircraft."

Section B * HInts for Entering Victory Conditions

1) Do not try to mix AND and OR victory conditions for the same level(ie.
same side and same victory level:total or minimum). ANDed always precedence,
which neans that your Ored victiry conditions will be ignored unitl ANDed
victory conditions are all met. Remember:"ANDed" means a necessary conditon,
whereas"ORed" means a sufficient conditio. It is contradicatory to use them
together.

2) Always make your on-station area rectangles larger than you think you'll
need. Experience has proven that making them snall means that the victory cond-
itions will not be met. Also, remember that if you create an on-station cond-
ition for a side, you must use the Path Editor to direct the necessary groups
to the on-station area, otherwise, the computer opponent will have no way of
achieving this victory condition.

3) Get creative with your victory conditions. You will find that they can be 
very flexible- you just have to think about it a little.

4) For more examples of victory conditions, refer to the victory conditions
entered for the BattleSet scenarios.

                          ... Call The JUMP Boards ...
 
       Harpoon ................  1 404 739 6908 ..........  WHQ U.S.A.  
       Invisible Crime ........ +49 621 705 485 ..........  HQ  Germany  
       Another World .......... +46 480 881 00  ..........  HQ  Sweden   
       Jolly Roger ............ +49 631 588 62  ..........  HQ  Germany  
   
