                     Welcome to GRAVITY FIGHT !

		     A game by Thorsten Grosch
		       Written in Blitz 2.1

           This is only a Demo-Version with limited features !

If you like to play the full version, please send 10 DM (or equivalent + 2 DM
for postage from foreign countries) to the following address:

		Thorsten Grosch
		Habichtweg 11
		63322 Roedermark
		Germany

The complete version features:      * two player competition mode
				    * bugs fixed - better playability
				    * millions of different levels - 
				      never ending fun !

Please register for this low price - give Shareware a chance !
 


Starting the Game
-----------------

To start this game from Disk, just open the GF drawer and 
double-click at the GravityFight Icon.

To install the Game on your HardDisk, copy the complete GF Drawer to 
your HD. The mathtrans.library and diskfont.library should be in your
Libs drawer.  
The GF Directory should contain the following files:

	GravityFight_Demo
	GravityFight_Demo.info
	ReadMe
	ReadMe.info
	g
	p1
	p2
	p3
	p4
	s1
	s2
	s3
	s4


	
Instructions
------------

The rules are simple: Two teams consisting of three ships fight against
each other, somewhere in space. In each turn, one player can fire a rocket
to destroy an enemy ship. But the rocket doesn앖 fly straight on, it압
influenced by the gravity force of the planets ! 
The bigger the planet, the stronger is it압 gravitation. If the rocket is
flying closer to the planet, the gravity becomes stronger.
 
I had the idea for this game some years ago and I made a very simple
version for the PC. Now I decided to code this version with Blitz Basic.
(a little bit inspired by "Worms", one of the greates games ever written)


What all the buttons are about:
-------------------------------

Use + and - to change your shot-power: 5 is a very slow,
				       250 is a very fast shot

Change your shot-angle with the rotated arrows:
The little arrows rotate your ship slowly, the big arrows rotate fast.

Use the left/right arrow to scroll through the playfield.

If you think that power and angle are correct, press the rocket button
(at the right side) to fire the rocket.

After the shot you can move your ship to a new position by using the 
four arrow buttons. But take a look at your fuel!

Press the end button to finish your move, now it압 the turn of the next
player from the other team.



This Game was tested on the following machines:
-----------------------------------------------

Amiga 1200 (Standard)
Amiga 500 (Standard)
Amiga 500 (68030 TurboBoard)

I hope it works on other Amigas too, send me a mail if you았e any trouble
running the game or comments, improvements, etc....

If many people send their shareware-fee I앏l think about creating 
a new version with features like different weapons, serial link mode, 
save & review shots, ...


	Bye-Bye and enjoy the game

			Thorsten Grosch


grosch@rbg.informatik.th-darmstadt.de
 
