ANOTHER WORLD:


        TO ENTER A NEW LEVEL CODE , YOU MUST DIE FIRST THEN PRESS "C"
        WHEN ASKED TO PRESS FIRE TO CONTINUE .

                  LEVEL 1 : EDJI          LEVEL 10 : KJIA
                  LEVEL 2 : HICI          LEVEL 11 : LFEK
                  LEVEL 3 : FLLD          LEVEL 12 : FLAK
                  LEVEL 4 : EDIL          LEVEL 13 : LAEA
                  LEVEL 5 : FADK          LEVEL 14 : FIEI
                  LEVEL 6 : LDCI          LEVEL 15 : GABK
                  LEVEL 7 : ICAH          LEVEL 16 : KCGB
                  LEVEL 8 : LDIJ
                  LEVEL 9 : LALD

Playing Tips:

 It is worth remembering after the blast run in the arena the directions
 for pressing the correct buttons are:

 Fire, down, fire, left 2, down, fire, up 3, and fire.
 You will now be launched into the female sanctum.

The Solution:

  First note that there are three ways of working the gun:
  * A single quick press will fire a thin beam for breaking ropes,
    disconnecting cables and killing enemy personnel.
  * Hold down the fire button until an energy ball appears then let
    go and a shield will form.  This stops laser shots.
  * Hold down the button until the energy ball swells and begins to
    hum.  Then let go and you will fire a big beam.
  And now, the Solution:
  Get out of the water to begin with!
  Level One - Code: EDJI
  Go left and take note of the vine.
  Go right past the water.
  Here are a number of worm-like creatures - kick them to kill them.
  Go right - more worms.
  Kick these as well, but watch for the worms that drop from the roof.
  Go right until you encounter a big black beastie.
  Now turn and run back to the screen with the hanging vine.
  Take a running jump at the vine - don't stop or you'll die!
  Jump off the vine when it breaks and run right.
  Keep running until you get to the screen where you first met the beast.
  Level 2 - Code: HICI
  You wake up in a cage with an alien for company.
  Rock the cage left and right until it drops.
  Pick up the gun.
  Run right, protecting your alien friend by shooting the guards.
  Use the shield to protect the alien while he opens the door.
  Now follow him through the door, to the lift.
  Go down to the bottom level.
  Go to the end and shoot out the small flashing light on the wall.
  Take the lift to the next level up.
  Blast the door, run and jump up.
  Wait for the alien, then open the door and walk in.
  Level 3 - Code: FLLD
  Into the small tunnels underground:
  Go left, Drop down.
  Go right, Drop down.
  Go right, Drop down.
  Go left, Drop down.
  Go right, Drop down.
  Level 4 - Code: LIBC
  Go left through the door and charge your gun.
  Go right, then blast through three doors.
  Run right to the exit.
  Kill the guard then walk to the edge of the broken bridge.
  Leap onto the lower right ledge.
  Blast a hole in the wall and go through it.
  Level 5 - Code: CCAL
  Go right and down the first shaft.
  Go right again then down onto the large rock.
  Jump right, then go right and jump over the spiked pit.
  Walk to the next screen, wait for the large rock to crash to the floor.
  (Don't forget to dodge the flying creature!)
  When two rocks fall and hit the floor together, run!
  Repeat this on the next screen.
  Beware of the tentacles (they can be shot, or you can run past them).
  Go right - You'll find more tentacles as well as some snapping traps.
  Jump over the traps, continue right to the end and blast the wall.
  Level 6 - Code: EDIL
  Go back to the screen with the falling rocks.
  Walk up the slope, turn around and shoot at the flying creature.
  Walk on to the next screen and watch!
  Take a running jump at the stalactite, climb on top of it and jump on
   to the next one from there.
  Repeat this procedure with all of them.
  If you do all this correctly you should end up on a large rock.
  Level 7 - Code: FADK
  Walk left off the rock, turn and blast the rock, then walk up the rock.
  Go right, jump over two pits, then one pit.
  Walk right, blast the wall to let in the water, then turn and run
   like buggery!  (don't forget to jump over the pits, though!)
  Go right and blast the wall.
  Now go past the steps and across the dried up waterfall.
  Level 8 - Code: KCIJ
  Observe the alien trapped below.
  Exit left over the waterfall and go through the door.
  Go down the steps, walk right and kill the guard.
  Go back up the steps and shoot at the light chain (this releases the
   alien above).
  Go back down the steps and run right as far as you can go.
  Kick the guard, then run and pick up the gun.
  Kill the guard and run right
  Ignore the guards here!
  Level 9 - Code: ICAH
  Dive into the water, swim across, climb out and have a look around.
  Swim down to the hole in the wall, left along the tunnel, and up into
   the second shaft for a breath of air.
  Swim right down to the bottom of the shaft, go right, get out for some
   air, and fire at the pulsating line.
  Now reverse these moves to go back to the pool surface.
  Level 10 - Code: FIEI
  Go left and kill the guard.
  Go right, up the stairs, and kill the guard on the left at the top of
   the stairs.
  Jump across right, blast the two doors down, and get your blaster ready
   to fire at the last door as the protective shield fades.
  Accurate timing and speed are needed to kill the guard.
  (Alternatively you can blast the last door, shield, jump the fireballs,
   then kill the guard).
  Go right, blast the door, then go right again.
  Jump up to recharge your gun, then go right.
  Watch the reflection of the guard on the bottom of the green sphere.
  Fire at the sphere when the guard's reflection is directly under it.
  Go left to the stairs, down the stairs, then down and right to the pool.
  Swim across and get out to find the guard dead.
  Go right.
  Level 11 - Code: LALD
  Jump down the opening, go right and blast the door.
  Run to the end of the corridor.
  Turn and put up a shield, then wait until the alien puts his arm down
   and pulls you up.
  Stay on the left side of the opening until the rocks fall, then follow
   the alien into the tank.
  To escape, press the top left-hand green button.
  (But you may wish to have some fun by pressing a few others first!)
  Level 12 - Code: LFEK
  Exit from the pod, run right onto the next screen and kill the guards.
  Now run right.
  Sit back and leave the machine in drive.
  Crawl across the floor to the levers on the right and wait for the
   guard to walk towards you.
  Pull the lever to kill the guard with the laser.
  Now pull the second lever, and crawl back to the light circle on the
   floor to escape from Another World!


