
E.S.P. is shareware.  It is protected under copyright law.  No part of this
software package may be distributed without all parts included, intact, and
unaltered.

E.S.P. is a game of strategy and skill.  The object of the game is to use up all
of the E.S.P. cards required.  This is done by placing them on the game board
adjacent to other cards.  The cards each bear a color and a symbol.

You many not place a card adjacent to another card of BOTH a different symbol
AND a different color.

For example, you may place a RED HEART next to a RED square, or a blue HEART.
It CANNOT be adjacent to a green triangle.

Simple?  Maybe...

Underneath the card in play is the amount of cards left to clear the board.
On the bottom of the screen is the time remaining to clear the board (a nearly
impossible one minute in the distributable version, a more confortable four
minutes in the registered version), and your score.

You may quit any time by hitting the ESCape key.

The registered version of this game includes the uncompiled AMOS source code, a
background soundtrack, the extended time limit, a high score table, the removal
of the registration screen, and various levels.

This game was tested on a 68EC020 Amiga 1200.

To install, place the OnGuard font into your FONTS: directory, and be sure your
LIBS: directory has both the ARP.BMAP and ARP.LIBRARY, as well as the
DISKFONT.LIBRARY.

I have found, with this version of AMOS, that, if run from Workbench 2.0+,
modifying the Overscan Pref can play havok with AMOS's method of detecting
mouse coordinates.  If you have Overscan set to anything but the default,
I recommend running this game from floppy.  I have done all I can to
minimize disk access.

The registration fee is $12 USA.  Make out check or money order to:

   Paul J. Taylor
   P.O. Box 1770
   Onset, MA  02558-1770

I appreciate your support of this product, the Amiga (natch!), and the shareware
distribution system.  Shareware authors devote a great deal of time and energy,
without any up-front payment, to providing you with enjoyable, affordable games
and utilities that can be sampled previous to purchase.  Please support share-
ware whenever possible (and deserved).

                  Enjoy!

                  Paul

P.S.  The included font that I created, OnGuard, is freeware.  Dazzles any
      Workbench!
