Global War 1.0 for the WGP errata as of July, 1975.
It has taken me several weeks on and off to complete my first module for the War Game 
Processor by Sean Emerson. Being my first game to convert I learned a lot about the 
editor that comes with the WGP. Lots of trial and error and many E-mail notes to Sean 
got me through the process.
I have found that after completing the module I found some features that are missing 
that could better the game playing but not important enough for me to redo the module
I realize that this game is not real popular but for me it occupied many of my days over 
15 years ago. No more huge stacks of units that make it hard to move and fiddle with.
Of course one would need the board game to play this module. Many tables are used 
for combined, movement and production. I forgot to include the East and West hex dif-
ferentiation. So one would keep in mind that the East side of the map is E2222 for Ha-
waii instead of just 2222 which this module protrays. And the West side should have an 
W before the numbers. 
I did not provide an area to put rebuilds so it would be up to the players to keep track. 
One can agree on a hex on the Eastern edge of the map and stack them there.  
Poland will use USA inf. hopefully Poland will be conquered in the beginning of the 
game so as to not confused the players thinking that USA has ground troops in Poland.
I have tried to take into account that any country could produce any type and number of 
units that they wish. That means that USSR could have a powerful naval fleet if that 
player wishes. France may be limited in this fashion but again if Germany doesn't take 
forever to take out France there should not be a problem. Do not forget that you need to 
keep track of your production track and reinforcements.
On all of the fleets, wether air or naval, the number on the counter represents the num-
ber of fleets. The two  defensive naval units, Merchant ships and amphibious, fleets 
have the number of fleets at the top of the counter. I also took the liberty to have the 
units factors or fleets go from 1,2,5,10 and 20 so one would need to mix and match to 
get the correct number needed. This is unlike the board game where there would be a 3 
fleet factor unit or land unit as one counter. In this GW module one would need to have 
a 1 factor and 2 factor unit of the same type to equal the same as a 3 factor unit. Well I 
just wanted to get that across.
The larger units are in the perspective forcepools. In the bottom left corner I put the 
units of 1 factor which might be used more frequently so one could have quick access 
to. The medium size units I put along the edge of the board. Some countries are easier 
to get to being that they are located in a corner. The other countries you would need to 
use a reference to get a quick change of map to get to the units. For example Germany 
one would have the square on the larger map run directly south from North Africa to the 
bottom edge of the map and that should get you to most if not all of Germany's units on 
the board. And for Italy one would have Australia in the middle of the square and then 
head south. USSR's units would be easily found by having Asia's undeveloped hexes in 
the middle of the square then head North. Reading this now is I am sure confusing but 
after checking on the map one could see what I mean.
I would guess that the naval movement and combat phases would take awhile because 
of three different phases. That would take 6 e-mails to complete not including the com-
bat where the defender may or may not want to commit units in range.  Again it has 
been a long time since I played this game so at this point I am unable to give pointers in 
how one could cut the e-mail transactions down. If you have any ideas let me know!
It takes about 7 times longer to load and save this game than it would for Third Reich. 
That is the only game I have to compare it to. 
Just to be sure check that the initial placements of units are in the correct place. The 
setup for some countries involve units to be stationed anywhere in a particular area so it 
is up to the player do decide if the unit is where they would want it. Germany has all 
their land units on one hex  allowing the player to place them. One would need to con-
sult the instructions to see if certian units could be placed elsewhere during setup. The 
only setup I have is for the beginning of the war and I plan to later include the High Wa-
ter Mark Scenario. Let me know if one runs out of a certain unit and I can go back to 
work in adding units of that type.

The original game was published by Simulations Publications, Inc. and now owned by 
Decision Games. I have no idea how one could get the game now. 
Hope this works and enjoy.
John T. Cuson
J. Cuson@Genie.Geis.Com
