

Note from Sami:

This program originally started out as a quick hack: can we move a line in AMOS
with a joystick? It has evolved into this.  Please feel free to use/improve on
the source code, it's included so that others may possibly learn from it.
Please send us any improvements you have made to the code.
While the source code is freely distributable, it is copyright
Cybris Design, 1993.

Credits:

    Programmers:
        Sami Cokar
        Nadeem Cokar
        W. Jared Brookes (base logic)

    Graphics:
        W. Jared Brookes

    Music:
        "Separate Ways", Journey.

    Sound Samples:
        "Tron", Walt Disney Productions.


We can be reached at:

    cokars@cuug.ab.ca   Sami Cokar

    Sami or Nadeem Cokar
    107 Silver Mead Crescent NW
    Calgary, Alberta
    T3B 3W2

    W. Jared Brookes
    236 Silvercrest Drive NW
    Calgary, Alberta, Canada
    T3B 3A4

   Notes from Jared:

    Since 1982, I've been playing the coin-op version of TRON.  This is the
    original coin-op, with the four games (Light Cycles, Tanks/Recognizers,
    MPC Cone, and Grid Bugs).

    I've always wanted to see a proper conversion of the Light Cycles game on the
    Amiga (or any computer -- for that matter).  This project took a great amount
    thinking, to convert to 680X0, from Z80 code (especially when we couldn't view
    the Z80 code!).  I'm very impressed with the original TRON programmers; I'm
    also impressed with Nad and Sami, and their ability to take the verbal and
    drawn logic that I put on paper, and convert it into working code.

    I hope you enjoy this.

    The source code should be floating around on a BBS near you.  Feel free to
    modify or enhance it.

    This program was tested on an A500, A2000, A3000, and A4000/030.

        Sincerely,


                Jared Brookes --  Nexus 6

1993-12-26


Note from Nadeem:

    In case you were wondering, the instructions are:

        Survive.

    Press fire to accelerate, and point the joystick in the direction you
    want.  If you manage to die, check the ** BOTTOM RIGHT ** of the
    screen for a <Play again> message. PS - the "fast" mode is very fast
    on the 68030!
