NAVY MOVES:

        The access code for part 2 is-"786169"
        
        PART 1: Move back slightly when you encounter a mine.  They're much
                less sensitive from the rear.  Avoid jetski bullets by
                jumping or ducking.  When approaching sharks, move the up
                and down nut left and right.  Octopi and sea monsters are
                easily thwarted by holding down fire until both missiles are
                ignited and then releasing.  Struggle to dock with a
                submarine?  Put a mini-sub in the gap between the tailfin
                and the hull, face the left of the screen and move upwards
                slowly, the computer takes over the docking procedure for
                you.

        PART 2: The code is 948411.
        
               Arrows indicate the direction of the lifts.  Kill white
               marines and flamethrower troops to get more ammo.  Stand over
               the body and search thoroughly.  To get the code of an
               official, you must shoot him with a gun, not a flamethrower.
               To enter computer codes, stand by a terminal, push up and
               you'll be asked for a code.  Two of the codes are:  transmit
               message: 1st or 2nd transmission official open door: 1st or
               2nd machine official to open the reactor door, use the
               terminal next to the reactor.  The computer confirms the bomb
               is planted.  Go out, use the same terminal you used to open
               the door and transmit the following: "OABERYAMD".  Now type
               "END" at the ready prompt and run like hell to the conning
               tower.

        Another Cheats says;
               The entry code for part two is 2277

               The solution is as follows;
               R, D, R, Shoot 2nd Official and take his code,
               L, enter door, U, R, R, R, D, D, R, U,
               enter door, D, enter "EMERGE" on the computer followed by 1st
               Official's code, now type "STOP MOTOR" and enter 1st
               Official's code again, L, U, L, L, enter door, U, R, R, R, R,
               D, enter door, R, enter door, R, enter door, R, D, D, L,
               L, L, shoot the Transmission Official and take his code,
               L, type on the computer "OPEN DOOR" then enter 2nd Officials
               code, L, set bomb on left side of the screen, R, R, R, R, R,
               U, U, R, type on computer "TRANSMIT" then enter
               transmission Officials code, now enter "OABERBYAMD", L, L, U,
               U, U go to left side of screen.
