NEW ZEALAND STORY:

        On the title screen, type "FLUFFYKIWIS" for unlimited lives.  Press
        the 'HELP' key to skip levels.

        On other versions pause the game, and press `M'.  You should hear
        a laser gun sound.  Type "MOTHERFUCKENKIWIBASTARDS".  Unlimited
        lives are yours. (You may need to type it backwards)
    
        Hold 'SHIFT' and type "PHILLIP" on the title screen for mega
        firepower.

        Press and hold the keys
        'T','R','Y','SPACE','C','H','E','A','T','I','N','G' (Including the
        space) on the title screen, the border should turn grey and you
        should have infinate kiwi's and the ability to skip levels by
        pressing "<-"

        Near the end of level 1-1 there are three large steps that you must
        climb to reach your brother (sister?), who is in a cage.  Stand at
        the left edge of the top step, facing left and jump.  But as you
        jump, fire.  If your current weapon is arrows, fire halfway up, but
        if your weapon is bombs, fire at the top of your jump.  A whirl-wind
        should appear after four hits, and it will take you to level 1-4.

        On level 1-2 shoot the baddies and collect the blue E on the floor
        to the right.  Now hop back to the point you started at and stand on
        the last two blocks on the left side of the second floor.  Shoot
        towards the left wall while doing tiny hops, and the warp will
        appear.  This will bring you to level 1-2 where there are 2 Extend
        Life Pills

        On level 1-3 from the starting position there are 12 ledges and a
        wall to the right.  Go to the other side of the wall and fire to
        the left towards the second ledge from the bottom.  Ship required.
        This will bring you to level 2-1 near the end of the round.

        In 1-4, you will be in a little box under some water.  Go up and
        to the right, and you come out in a small room with three boxes on
        the right hand side.  Go up these, and you will see 4 long spaces,
        the top one having an {N} and a {D} in it.  Go up to the top one,
        get the letters, stand in the centre of the space, facing left, and
        fire.  yep, you guessed it, another whirl-wind.  This one takes you
        to level 2-4.

        On level 2-1 above your kiwi friend is a small tunnel which takes
        you to some stair-like ledges leading to a small cavern where
        there are two fruits.  Fire at the fruit on the right.  Ship needed 
        to reach tunnel.  This brings you to level 3-4.

        On level 2-2 find a balloon and float up to where the bears on
        balloons emerge. Stand to the right of the green left-pointing
        arrow and shoot the bears balloons away. Repeat this until the warp
        appears.  This brings you to the end of level 2-2.

        On level 2-2 there is a ledge with a green arrow pointing right.
        Jump up into the water.  This takes you to level 2-2 halfway
        through the level.

        On level 2-3 follow the first water you come to.  At the end are
        two ledges with spikes below.  Stand on one ledge and fire at the
        other.  This takes you to level 2-3 takes you halfway through the
        level.

        On level 2-4 , stand at the entrance to the room where the giant
        octopus is located and fire to the right several times.  A warp will
        appear that will take you to the beginning of level 3-1.

        On level 4-1 above the Extend Life Pills is a tunnel.  Fire above
        the 2nd letter from the right.  You must be on a duck ship for it to
        work.  This brings you to level 4-2.

        On level 4-4 below the kiwi to the left are some spikes.  Stand on
        the left hand side of them and using small jumps fire to the right.
        This brings you to level 5-1.

        When you reach the ice whale, move to the right-hand side of the
        spikes, avoid the crystals, and wait until he picks you up.  Once
        inside the whale, you can start shooting, but avoid the ice drops.

        Meeting the rock monster without bombs makes him difficult to pass.
        So collect bombs, go to the highest platform and shoot him.  Kill it
        by either dodging the bullets and hitting it when the doors open, or
        by fireballs.

        The last boss you encounter is the balloon seal.  He cant be killed,
        by blows to the body, so you must hit the balloon.  Be careful for
        the balloon seal is armed with a cannon and shoots cannon balls at
        Tiki.

        The town names are:

                AUCKLAND, ROTORUA, WAITOMO CAVES, STRAIT COOK, and MT COOK.

        Try shooting arrows into certain clear areas because they can force
        a door to appear. Jump into the door to enter a latter stage.

