Enpitsu, the god of Warm Water (not cold! nor hot!)
Electric Boogaloo, the god of Appropriate Measures
Grubble, the god of Cannon Fodder
Uranus, The Lord of the Rings
Put-Put, the god of Unsuitable Pastimes
Napkin, the god of Magical Sprites
Kecks, the god of Nicking Stuff
Swuuj, the god of Blades
'k, the god of Rocks
Tinsel, the Shiny god
Happydude, the god of Crap
The Venerable Bauble, the god of Condiments

--------------
Enpitsu: praying to him gives you warm water. Encountering cold or
hot water tends to make him mildly unhappy (not *very*), making
it warm makes him very happy.
At higher levels, he gives you a magic water pistol, and maybe the
means to fill it (some sort of magic cartridges that perhaps you
refill with magic??),using it with warm water (as nature intended)
will make him quite happy.
At very high levels, he probably gives you a jet-of-warm-water spell,
that obviously only works if he's happy with you.
Probably will be some sort of monsters that he is aligned with / against.

Electric Boogaloo: You probably can't follow him. He's probably more
there for flavour, etc. You might be able to pray for him for some
sort of help, from various altars to him. Presumably this will anger
your own god.

Grubble: Again, you almost certainly can't follow him. If you pray
to him, you will likely be sent to Soviet Russia, where Cannon Fodder
makes light work of YOU! Cannon Fodder creatures will probably
pray to him for powers. There will be the odd altar to him.

Uranus: The Lord of The Rings, worshipped by all gerbils. They have
a temple to him deep in dungeons under the Passages of Uranus (found
in the Windy Valley). Some of his most powerful followers may be
rewarded with rings.

Put-Put: Er. He will probably have quests (as will the others!), that
will involve unsuitable pastimes. The rewards for these will be, er...
*shrug*
He will probably appreciate you doing things like kicking small animals,
pinching witches bottoms, slapping bears in the face with a wet fish,
and digging under pillars (which will likely get you killed).
He will probably reward you with the means for playing unsuitable
games.

Napkin: Magical Sprites will pray to Napkin, but you will prolly be
able to worship him too- Praying to him should have him summon a
sprite to help you! The sprites should have magical powers such as
sleep spells.
At higher levels, uh, I dunno. Maybe you get more powerful summonings,
maybe you get some spritely abilities (eg teleporting, etc).
Napkin will probably appreciate you killing certain types of monster,
and will be pretty angry if you kill sprites.

Kecks: Thieves and things will be followers of Kecks, if you follow
kecks you will be able to pray for assistance in nicking stuff.
Nicking stuff (from others) will make him happy. Buying stuff will
make him very very angry. Killing thieves and magpies, etc will
make him quite angry. Those thieves will still try to rob you.
You can still try to rob them.
At some point maybe you can rob him, which will make him probably
kill you but if you succeed he'll be impressed! Or something.
Maybe you can steal the secret of fire from him or someone else.
HAHA! At some point after robbing Kecks, you get given the quest to
nick the secret of fire (ie- some matches) from Prometheus!

Swuuj: He likes you to cut yourself! He gets annoyed if you
fight without a blade. He will occasionally hurl blades at you
just for a laugh (the longer you go without cutting yourself
or someone else, the more likely he is to do this!). At low level,
if you have no weapon at all, he will give you some poxy little
penknife. At much higher levels, he will probably give you quite
powerful blades.
At very high level, you will probably be able to use spells to
summon animated swords and fire enchanted daggers.

'k: He likes rocks. If he gets sufficiently angry, he might kill
you with rocks- or maybe one giant rock? If he is sufficiently
impressed with you, he might praise you with a shower of rocks.
He probably likes you to hit people with rocks. He might like you
to offer him rocks occasionally (but not too often! He'd prefer
you to use them most of the time). He probably gets very angry
if you ignore a rock (by walking past it and not picking it up).

Tinsel: He likes shiny things! When he appears, he will dazzle
you slightly. He gets unhappy if you wear/wield unshiny things, and
using sufficiently dull things will make him quite angry.
He will supply you with shiny items, which he doesn't mind you
*not* using (he doesn't care about where the items come from,
he just wants you to use shiny stuff, OK?), and the usefulness
of those items will increase with level- at low level, you'll
just get stuff like shiny knives and tinfoil shirts.
He'll appreciate you killing dull creatures. He won't like you
killing shiny creatures, but if you offer those creatures to
him, he'll forgive you (this, of course, requires the body
to be offerable...).
At middling levels, he'll give you the ability to work the
corpses of such creatures to make them into usable shiny stuff.
Using these will often please him a bit too!

Happydude: He'll give you crap. Some of it will be useful,
much of it will break, or not work in certain situations.
He'll want you to jump through all sorts of hoops. He'll
dump certain sorts of rubbish (ie- the useless sort) on
you in prodigious amounts, and he'll require payment at
various times, or he'll get angry. If he's sufficiently
angry, he'll probably send extra crap at you when you're
in trouble.

The Venerable Bauble: Using condiments pleases him. Eating
without them makes him quite angry. He will give you
condiments. When he's not very happy with you, these will
often be things that you're allergic to or don't like.
At very high levels, they will have beneficial effects.
If he's sufficiently angry with you, he'll drop you in a
condiment-style hell: eg, lots of salt or pepper, or
a vast sea of vinegar, or a swamp of ketchup.
If you can escape from these hells, you will probably end
up at a portal not-too-far from where you were taken.
But not that close either.

