Finding the player:

Mobs in the same room as the player just move towards him.

Mobs in other rooms need to *find* the player.

Room data should include info of what other rooms are immediately
accessible.

If a mob is in a room that is immediately accessible from the
 room the player is in, the mob notices him by smell/sound,
 and tries to get to the player's room.

Otherwise, the mob wanders about from room to room.
Each mob has a cache of rooms it can remember visiting.
Smarter mobs get larger cache.
Rooms with more doors have higher priority, as do most
recently visited rooms???
For rooms in the cache, mobs timestamp each door they go
through. Whenever they are back in that room, they
use this data to pick a new exit. This way they are
much more likely to cover larger areas of the dungeon
quickly. Larger cache would mean fewer cache misses,
obviously making them less likely to cover old ground
(at least before they've covered new ground).

When a mob enters a room with only one door, they
can only go back, so they will.
When they enter a room with *more* doors, they *wont*
go back through the door they came from. So in a
room with 2 doors, they will either go forwards if
they're covering new ground, and if they're backtracking
they'll backtrack (as the hubwards door will be the
one they've not been through the longest, if you see...)

How do they navigate tunnels? Hmm, not so sure...
I think the dumber ones must use that method of going straight
towards the target. In 90% of cases that should work OK. But
not all. Some could be able to work out the outline of
the tunnel region they're in so that for some given point
in the tunnel they simply "know" the exact route to that
point. But that's weird... But would the player notice???
Again, a system like that for rooms, using a small cache
of points, here being a cache of points in tunnels that
have been visited. It only makes sense for these to be
points with more than 2 adjacent spaces being tunnel/door.
Larger number of spaces gives higher priority, as does
recentness.

Behaviour:
=========

When the game has become more sophisticated, it would be good to have
monsters that can act differently depending on situation and on
the monster itself. Some monsters could work as a team, and have
objectives other than simply "kill the player". Eg, some could
guard the leader of the team, the leader could give the team
their orders (thereby making them all much more dangerous), others
could launch ranged attacks, others could block the doors of a room.

Monsters could take various defensive actions pertinent to their
situation: eg, if they're about to die they might try to escape
or heal up. If they're starting or about to start combat, they
might try to improve their fighting ability. If they're at
a distance, they could launch ranged attacks (as above). If
they're in bad shape and/or outmatched, they might get scared
and try to run away.

In certain situations they might fight harder (eg they might not
try to escape death but fight on, also they might "pull their
punches" in ordinary situations, to make gameplay easier? Then
these situations become more dangerous!)

Maybe at times you might be able to impersonate someone of the
monster's race/class of a higher rank (perhaps wear a crown
or a medal or summat), and maybe have those monsters either
leave you alone, or perhaps even follow *your* orders!!!
But trying to look like a VIP to monsters who don't think you're
in their group will just make them think that you're even more
worth killing/capturing! So it's a 2 edged sword.

Also, what would happen when those monsters realise it's a
ruse? They'd be very very likely to turn on you and try to
kill you or capture you. HOWEVER. The longer they are with
you following your orders, the more likely they get of becoming
loyal to you. If they are under your command long enough,
you can expect them to stay with you. Unfortunately, each
time you give them an order, there is a very slight chance
spotting your trick. Not sure what other circumstances
they'd work it out, perhaps when *other* members of their
group turn up, especially higher rank ones. Or when you
change what you wear/wield. Killing things with them
would increase their loyalty tho (especially if they
get treasure from such an encounter!)

ITEMS:
=====

Monsters have inventories. They should use them!
Broken down into categories:

Wearables/wieldables: monster should have a weight limit, and
go to within say 80% of it on carrying such items. They
should always wear/wield whatever they think is best if
they have plenty. But they shouldn't wear/wield *anything*
if there's no threat to them at the time. If they have
quite inferior stuff with them when they are over the
limit, they should consider dropping the bad stuff.

Scrolls, zappables, potions: They should only use a certain
number of these, which should have some flag set to indicate
"monster friendly" or summat. Should they simply know those
types? Probably. Should they pick up the other types?
Only if they have plenty of space.
They should favour carrying items they have none/one of to
those items they have lots of. They should give little
attention to zappables that they already have (as they have
several charges).

Valuables: Certain monsters should avoid these (but the ones
that do would prolly be the ones that don't carry *anything*),
some monsters should be especially interested in them (not
necessarily the ones that carry *other* things), and other
monsters should probably give them varying priority.

Food/condiments: Not sure. Hmm.. Some condiments, as above,
they might know of certain uses for. But maybe they wouldn't
use them with food? Would they otherwise use food?

The rest: monsters should ignore other items. They prolly wouldn't
be able to use them. Monsters with no items or who are at only
a fraction of their weight limit (say 10%) might have a chance of
picking such items up, some monsters more than others.

