
                        FALCON MISSION DISK 1 --  DOCS
                                     By

                                UnderWord  of  Oshkosh, WI


Mission 1 - Rolling Thunder
	WAYPOINT  - D1
	OBJECTIVE - Destroy at least three tanks
EFFECTIVE WEAPONS - AGM-65B Maverick
		    Mk 84 2000lb Bomb

	The tanks move southwest from the south side of the lake, just
mortheast of you, towards your hame airbase.  The T-80 tanks are immune
to your 20MM cannon, so be careful to preserve your ordnance.  It is
essential to destroy all the tanks in one mission in order to allow you
to get on with the vital strategic missions that remain.  
Operation: Counterstrike depends on always being able to return to your
own airfield.

	As the tanks near your airfield, you will not be destracted by
enemy fithters.  The MiG-29s will be driven away by your air umbrella.

	You will be warned by ground control when the tanks are approaching
dangerously close to your airbase.  The F-16 map display does not indicate
whether there are any active enemy tanks.  However, once you get airborne,
you'll soon discover the T-80s' locations by the pyrotechnics of the land
battle as they fight their way forward.


MISSION 2 -- WATER SPORTS

	WAYPOINT         - D2
	OBJECTIVE        - Destroy at least three landing craft.
EFFECTIVE WEAPEONS       - AGM-65B Maverick
		           Mk 84 2000lb Bomb
			   20mm Cannon

	This mission easily combines with Rolling Thunder; the landing craft
should be the next target once the immediate threat yo your airfield has been
eliminated by taking out the tanks.  Here the cannon comes into its own with
strafing runs over the lake.  The landing craft move southwest from one side of
the lake to the other.  Once each landing craft is stationary while the T-80 is
disembarking and therefore far easier to pinpoint and attack.  But, on the other
hand, the landing craft has already delivered its cargo and done its job.  If
you sink the landing craft on the lake, you get rid of tank and landing craft in
one shot.  

	Ground control will inform you when the landing craft reach the lake
shore. 


MISSION 3  --  TRUCK INTERDICTION

	WAYPOINT      -  D3
	OBJECTIVE     -  Destroy the truck convoy
Effective Weapons     -  AGM-65B Maverick
			 Mk 84 2000lb Bomb
			 20mm Cannon

	The truck convoy supplies the enemy's attempts to attack the airfield.
Knocking out the enemy convoy will provide some respite from the onslaught of
landing craft and tanks.  The convoy starts out from the road in northern enemy
territory.  The trucks travel west and then turn due south over a river bridge
and offload their supplies where the road ends near the lake.

	Once you've found them, the trucks should be a piece of cake... but it's
very easy to botch a simple mission like this by concentrating too hard on
looking for the trucks and falling to a SAM or a MiG because you weren't paying
attention.  Cut down relative motion by attacking from straight behind the
convoy.  Ground control will inform you when the trucks reach the bridge, which
will at least narrow down your search area.  Once the truck convoy reaches its
destination,  the ground forces are resupplied and another convoy starts out
from its starting point on the map.


MISSION 4   -  TRAIN INTERDICTION

	WAYPOINTS    -  D4,D4
	OBJECTIVE    -  Destroy Train
EFfective Weapons    -  AGM-65B  Maverick
			Mk84 2000lb Bomb
			20mm Cannon

	Train busting is as old as ground attack.  But from Sopwith Pups to
F-16s, the problem is the same:  first find and then destroy a fast-moving
taraget.  What's worse this train is a pretty tough beast and wont be bothered
if you knock a few hole in it track.  Taking out the first car won't bring the
rest of the train to a halt: you have to blow up each car of the train
individually.  On the other hand, most of the track is mercifully free of SAM
sites so you only have to worry about MiGs.

	Like the truck convoy, stopping the train slows down enemy efforts to
resupply its front line troops.  This, in turn, takes the pressure off your
airbase and allows you to continue your longer-range missions.  Ground controll
will warn you when the train crosses the river bridge.  Like the trucks, another
train will depart as soon as one reaches its destination.  Apart from the tanks
themselves, these supply convoys are definitely near the top of your agenda.  If
too many of these trains get through, you are going to be fighting a losing
battle against a never-ending stream of tanks and landing craft.



MISSION 5    -  WILD WEASEL

	WAYPOINTS:    -   VARIOUS
	OBJECTIVE:    -   DESTROY AT LEAST FOUR SAM SITES
EFFECTIVE WEAPONS:    -   AGM-65B Maverick
			  Mk 84 2000lb Bomb
			  20mm Cannon

	This mission is a useful prelude to virtually all the remaining missions
since most of the strategic abjectives are guarded by SAM sites.  Carrying the
ordnance to deal wht SAM sites (including a jamming pod if you can get one)
means that it its usually not practical to take out SAM sites and your strategic
target with the same weapon load.  Therefore, for a clear run at the target take
out the SAM sites beforehand and then come back before they are repaired.

	At Colonel level, be prepared for the SAM sites to launch SA-6 Gainfuls
despite jamming.  With this missile's 80kg semi-active radar homing warhead, the
SA-6 can still do serious damage  even if jamming throws it off a bit.  You need
to destroy the before the lock on you.  The only way to foil an SA-6 is to fly
low, but then you'll have to watch out the SA-7s.



MISSION 6   - SERPENTS JAW

	WAYPOINT      - D7
	OBJECTIVE     - DESTROY ROAD BRIDGE
EFFECTIVE WEAPONS     - AGM-65B Bomb
			Mk 84 2000lb Bomb

	Why waste time trying to find the truck convoy? A much simpler solution
to the proble is to take out the road bridge that the convoy has to cross. 
Unfortunately, SAM sites line both side of the road leading to the bridge.  One
possible course of action is to drive have due west and then pull round to take
the bridge from behind.  The Maverick is probably the weapon of choice here.
With a fat, juicy target like this bridge, it should be possible to take it out
without sacrificing too much height or speed, thus reducing your vulnerability
to MiGs and SAMs.

	Once this bridge is demolished, the turcs simply mill about in the
vicinity and become sitting ducks for future missions.


MISSION 7   -  SERPENTS TAIL

	WAYPOINT     - D8
	OBJECTIVE    - DESTROY THE RAIL BRIDGE
EFFECTIVE WEAPONS    - Mk 84 2000lb Bomb

	This big, solidly constructied rail bridge has been a real dilemma for
High Command for some time.  High-level strategic bombing has failed to shift
the bridge, and light attack with A-10s and AV-8B Junp Jets have just bounced
off it.  What's required is a couple of well-placed 2000 pounders around the
main span.  Once again, this is a much more permanent way of stopping the flow
of supplies than taking out the train.  The enemy can always get another train,
but the rail bridge will take some time to repair.

	A high-precision dive bomb run is probably the optimum attack techique.
Fortunately, no SAM sites are advacent to the rail bridge so you shoud be able
to get a clear run at the target.  A heavy warload, however, is going to make
you a sitting duck for any MiGs.  Fly there fast on full burner, drop your load,
then look around for bandits.


MISSION 8   -  POL MISSION

	WAYPOINT    -  D9
	OBJECTIVE   -  DESTROY ALL THREE FUEL TANDS AT THE OIL REFINERY
EFFECTIVE WEAPONS   -  AGM-65B Maverick
		       Mk 84 2000lb Bomb

	"POL" stands for "Petroleum, Oil, and Lubricants," and it's one of the
riskiest missions of the entire campaign.  Since these three fuel tanks are not
arrange in a line, you will probabaly need two passes at the oil refinery.
Naturally enough, there are no less that four SAM sites in the vicinity - two
very close indeed.  The oil refinery is the target deepest in enemy territory so
you will have to fight your way in and out.  There are also other SAM sites
enroute so you have to choose your approach very carefully.  Still keen to
volunteer?  Good luck!

	Fuel supplies, of couse, are vital to every aspect of the enemy effort,
from suplying fuel for fighter to keeping the tanks rolling.  Taking out this
oil refinery will really hinder the efforts of the enemy.



MISSION 9   - WASP'S NEST

	WAYPOINT    -  D10
	OBJECTIVE   -  DESTROY ENEMY LANDING STRIP
EFFECTIVE WEAPONS   -  Durandal anti-runway bomb
		       20mm Cannon

	Dealing with MiG-29s once they get into the air can be a dangerous
problem.  The simplest solution is to prevent the MiGs from getting airborne.
While destroving the enemy airfield will not directly achieve your ultimate
abjective, it will restrict enemy air activity and thereby make your overall
goal a lot easier to achieve.  The airstrip is only out of action when both
runways have been cratered, althouth one Durandal at the intersection will do
the job.  Watch out for the SAM sits just to the south of the enemy airfield.
It is definitely good advice to take the Sams out first.

	Intilligence believes this airfield to be the launch site for a new
reconnaissance drone.  If the drone make it into your territority, it will be
use not only to spot friendly troop positions but also to report back directly
via down link to the enemy headquarters.  Since the size of the drone is too
small for radar detection, you'll have to rely on a pair of harty eys for a
visual sighting.  Worse yet, since the drone doesn't give off enough heat for a
Sidewinder's tracking system, you'll be forced to shoot it down with your 20mm
cannon.


MISSION 10    -  SLEDGEHAMMER

	WAYPOINT   -  D11
	OBJECTIVE  -  SHUT DOWN THE TANK FACTORY BY DESTROYING AND 2 BUILDINGS
EFFECTIVE WEAPONS  -  AGM-65B Maverick
		      Mk 84 2000 bomb

	Your best plan of attack is to eliminate the two SAM sits west of the
factory first.  As soon as you've disposed of the twin SAM threats, the tank
factory itself is next on your list of candidtates for early destruction.  As
soon as this target has been destroyed, you have effectively ended the enemy
threat to your airfield.  The enemy will obviously seek to repair the factory as
rapidly as possible, so it's worth a return trip every now and then.


MISSION 11   - THUNDERBOLT

	WAYPOINT     -  D12
	OBJECTIVE    -  SHUTDOWN THE POWER STATION BY DESTROYING ANY TWO OF
			THE COOLING TOWERS
EFFECTIE WEAPONS     -  AGM-65B Maverick
			Mk 84 2000lb bomb

	The power station is a reasonable easy target once you get to it.
It's easy to locate just downstream from a river junction and near some
mountains.  Luckily, you don't have to wory about any of those irksome SAM sites
nearby.  As usual, though, there's a catch: getting to the target is another
matter. You have to thread your way between the SAM sites in the swamp and those
around the airfield.

	Destroying the power station will halt all production throughout the
enemy industrial region until the power is brought back on-line.  Such a vital
target is bound to be well-defended by enemy air assets so espect a bumpy ride.



MISSION 12   -  FLAMING DART

	WAYPOINT   -  D13
	OBJECTIVE  -  SHUTDOWN THE ARSENAL BY DESTROYING ANY TWO OF THE
		      FOUR BUILDING at the factory.
EFFECTIVE WEAPONS  -  AGM-65B  Maverick
		      Mk 84 2000lb bomb
		      20mm Cannon

	The simplest approach to this last mission is to fly due north at
cruising altitude.  Then, as soon as you reach the end of the road, immediately
turn and begin your dive on the arsenal.  With a little luck, you can bombard
the target with your air-to-ground weapons and be gone before the enemy knows
what hit them.  The arsenal factory is a compact, small target area so the
Mavericks definitely look like the best bet.  Only go with the 2000 pounders if
(1) the crew chief lets you down, (2) you like really big bomb craters, or (3)
you're a plain masochist who likes dragging heavy loads for miles over enemy
territory.  Once again, destruction of the arsenal will halt the flow of
material to the front and buy you valuable time.


    ------------ STRATEGY ---------------

	Initially the key to success is survival.  On your first sortie, you
should aim to destry the tanks with Mavericks and then destroy the lanking craft
with any leftover Mavericks and the cannon.  As soon as you deal with the
landing craft and tanks, you should probably focus on one of the bridges.  After
that, you've got a bit of a breathing room from the immeditate threat of losing
the game and you can start to look at the strategic options.

	The enemy tank stockpile is resupplied as soon as the landing craft
reach the shore.  So if you allow all three landing craft to beach, you can
expect a steady stram of tanks to attack your airfield for the next few
missions.  Therefore, the first flight is absolutely vital to success or
failure.  Blow it and you are likely to be in for a very hard fight indeed.  If
you "buy the farm" the positions of all the enemy units are reset.  If you want
to continue from where you left off, you can choose a pilot with the same name.
The scenario continues from were you left off, but the new pilot starts off
from zero as far as points and medals go. If the scenario is going badly, you
can start from scratch by choosing a different pilot at the Duty Roster.

	An important point to bear in mind is how long the various targets stay
destroyed once hit.

		   TARGET            # OF MISSIONS THEY REMAIN DESTROYED
		---------           -------------------------------------
		Bridges			5
		Factories		5
		SAM Sites		3
		Trains			3
		Runways			2
		Trucks			2
		Landing Craft		1
		Tanks			1

From this list, it can be seen that ultimate victory can be obtained by merely
picking off one of the four key industrial sites each mission.  But obviously
should one mission fail, you could be faced with the factories repairing
themselve just as quickly as you destroy them.

Don't forget that even if you do cause a total industrial shutdown, you could
still lose if the enemy ivades the airfield using the supplies that are in the
pipeline.  After the airfield has been overrun and you have been captured, the
scenario is reset for you to have another try.

If you manage to achieve a complete enemy industrial shutdown when flying at
First Lieutenant or Captain rank, you will receive a Distinguished Flying
Cross.  If you complete your compaingn at Major, Lt.Colonel, or Colonel rank,
you will receive the highest US Military decoration, the Congressional Medal of
Honor.  At all ranks, you will also receive 1000 extra bonus times the rank
multiplier.


-----------==============   NOTE  =================--------

The aircraft will automatically level itself after a minor banking maneuver,
although this can be toggled off by pressing [Z] if you prefer not to have the
plane auto-level.  In addition, the [D] key turns on the auto-view mode.  If a
MiG is nearby, the plane will automatically switch views within your cockpit for
the best look at the enemy.




This doc file took alot of time and work to produce.  If you use it and find 
Falcon Mission disk #1 to be worthwhile, please purchase the program so
they can continue to make more.  This is an excellent program and only costs
about 20 bucks.

Thanks   

Under
    World.

                                  Later...............

[m