----------------------------
CATAPULTS 1.00
 1993 Christopher Jennings
and Christopher Cooke.
ENCHANTED BLADE ASSOCIATES
R4 Langton, ON, N0E 1G0, CAN
----------------------------

AGA WARNING:  This program was originally written quite a while ago,
              and it has not been updated to support the AGA chipset.
              To run this program on an AGA machine, first boot with
              the original chipset.  It may not like certain CPU/
              chipset combinations as well.

              This program was written in the "bad old days" of
              hardware hits and cache assumptions.  We are
              releasing it now for the heck of it.  We have no
              intentions of updating it for new systems at this point
              (but we could be convinced to if people send us some
              mail or E-mail asking us to).  If it runs on your
              machine, enjoy.  If not, and you think you would really
              like the game as it is described, send us some mail.
              If we get 25 requests or more we will update it for
              new machines.

                                                       Chris & Chris

REACHING US
-----------

   We can be reached via any of the following means:

  Regular mail: Enchanted Blade Associates, R4 Langton, ON  N0E 1G0,
   Canada

  Telephone: We may be hard to reach, but leave a message and we'll
   get back to you (we cannot afford to call unregistered users
   long distance, however, so leave your address or tell us to call
   collect (or give us your name and registration number)):
   (519) 875-2137

  E-Mail: The official E-Mail address is "lynnjenn@vef.north.net"
   Please put "EBA SUPPORT" in the subject somewhere as we get a
   lot of mail, and this will help us get to you faster.

HOW TO GET EVEN MORE NEAT STUFF
-------------------------------

   This software is distributed as shareware.  It is not crippled
in any way.  You may try this product for free, and if you like
it, we ask that you send us $15 in Canadian funds to pay for your
use.  As a special incentive to register,  we offer the following:

  A sappy note telling you how grateful we are.

  A registration and serial number for product support.

  A free disk with as many compressed "goodies" as we can cram onto
   it.  If there is a more recent version of your program around,
   we'll be sure to put that on it, too. (Approximate retail value
   of at least $7 US)

  A mail-in rebate coupon worth 10% off of any COMMERCIAL (i.e.
   not shareware or freely distributable) Enchanted Blade
   Associates product, even non-software products.

   If you decide not to register, please feel free to write anyway
and tell us why so we can do better next time.

HOW TO REGISTER
---------------

   Just print out the "Registration" text file included in this
distribution and fill it out.  Drop it in the mail and let us do
the rest.  You'll usually receive your package within three weeks
or less, sometimes as short as eleven days.  (It will take longer
if you live outside of North America)

COPYRIGHT NOTICE
----------------

   This software is protected under international copyright law.
The software is copyright  1993 by Christopher Jennings and
Christopher Cooke.  The revised documentation (including the
AmigaGuide and ASCII text documentation), and the new
distribution as a whole, are copyright  1995 by Enchanted
Blade Associates.  All rights reserved unless otherwise noted
in this documentation.  This package may be distributed freely
subject to the following conditions:

  It may not be distributed through any means that claims any
   form of copyright over materials distributed through it.

  It may not be sold.  A small fee may be charged for distribution
   costs, not to exceed $7 US per disk or $60 US per compact disc.

  All of the original components of the distribution must be
   included, and they may not be modified in any way.  If you suspect
   the product distribution has been modified, consult us at the
   given address.

  Should you like and use this product, we ask that you pay a small
   fee and become a registered user.  This entitles you to specific
   benefits outlined elsewhere in this documentation.


LIMITATIONS ON WARRANTY
-----------------------

ENCHANTED BLADE ASSOCIATES (EBA HEREAFTER) MAKES NO WARRANTY, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, REGARDING THIS PRODUCT.  EBA DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTY THAT
THE SOFTWARE IS FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY
OF MERCHANTABILITY IS DISCLAIMED SINCE THE PRODUCT IS NOT BEING SOLD
BUT IS FREELY DISTRIBUTABLE.

EBA SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, OR OTHER
DAMAGES, EVEN IF EBA IS ADVISED OF OR AWARE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.  EBA SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR LOST PROFITS, REVENUES, OR DAMAGES
OR COSTS INCURRED AS A RESULT OF LOSS OF TIME, DATA OR USE OF THE
SOFTWARE, OR FROM ANY OTHER CAUSE EXCEPT THE ACTUAL COST OF THE PRODUCT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL EBA'S LIABILITY EXCEED THE PURCHASE PRICE OF THIS
PRODUCT, WHICH IS 0 (ZERO) DOLLARS UNLESS SHAREWARE FEES HAVE BEEN PAID.
SOME PROVINCES AND STATES DO NOT ALLOW EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF
INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION OR EXCLUSION
MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.


CATAPULTS
---------

   Catapults is a two player game whose heritage lies in the
famous "shoot the cannon at the castle" genre, but it looks at
things (literally and figuratively) from a whole new perspective.


INSTALLATION
------------

   You can play Catapults just as it is, from the directory you
unarchived it to with the directions below.  If you want to install
it, just copy the directory to wherever you want to put it.  If
you have Commodore's "installer" program in your C: directory,
an automated installation script has been provided as well.


PLAY
----

   To start Catapults, simply double click on the appropriate
icon.  The game will begin in a few moments with a title window
that will let you choose a playing level from one of four
(Squire, Knight, Thane, and Emperor) with the right button. 
Press the left button to start playing.  Pressing the Esc key (in
the upper left corner of the keyboard) at any time will exit
back to the Workbench.

   As the ruler of your kingdom, your first task will be to
construct your castle.  This is done using the various building
blocks provided on the right side of the screen. Going from top
to bottom, left to right, the pieces are as follows:

 GRASS    : Any areas you wish to leave blank are left as grassy
plains; grassy squares will provide your castle with a supply of
food during the (soon to commence) war seasons.  Catapults may
travel up to two squares per movement turn over grass.

 FLOOR    : The floor pieces allow you to cover the interior of
your castle. Initially, your catapult will be positioned on the
first piece of floor available. Floors also provide an advantage
when moving your catapult, allowing up to six squares per
movement turn.

 WELL     : The well supplies your castle with most of its water,
and thus keeps the inhabitants of your castle alive.

 KEEP     : The keep is the brain of your castle; it is the most
heavily fortified location in your kingdom, and the place from
which all your rulings will emerge (assuming it hasn't been
destroyed, of course). The keep is also a type of tower, but is
not placed in the corners of your walls.

 STORAGE  : Adding food storage units to your castle will make it
much better suited to surviving long sieges without fear of
starvation.

 SHELTER  : During times of war, most of the inhabitants of your
kingdom will flock to your shelters to wait things out in
relative safety.

 WALLS    : There are both vertical and horizontal wall
components; together with the towers these form the skeleton of
your castle: they are your first and most valuable line of
defense.

 GATES    : To allow you in and out of your castle, you may place
gates in vertical or horizontal wall sections.  Your catapult can
traverse the width of three gates in a single movement turn.

 TOWERS   : The four types of towers (upper left, upper right,
lower left and lower right) form the joints which merge your
walls into a single unit. They offer a defensive advantage in
that they are higher than anything else on the map.

 MOAT     : There are six basic pieces for constructing moats:
vertical, horizontal, and four types of corner pieces.  These can
be used to block the passage of your enemy.

 BRIDGES  : There are horizontal and vertical bridge sections
available to let you cross your moats in safety.

 CLEAR    : The "C" (Clear) icon will clear your current castle,
allowing you to start over from scratch.

 OK       : The "OK" icon will test your castle, and if it is
acceptable, continue with the game.  The possible error codes and
their meanings are:

 {1} Interior structure made external: You have put something
that belongs inside a castle outside of castle walls.

 {2} Fatal structural flaw: You have constructed walls in an
illogical or impossible pattern; for example a vertical wall
surrounded by grass.  The walls should eventually connect to form
a continuous line.

 {3} Must have a well: Your castle needs at least one well.

 {4} Must have a tower: Your castle needs at least one keep
(tower).  This does not refer to the corner towers used in walls.

 {5} Illogical moat flow pattern: Your moat abruptly stops in the
middle of nowhere.  It must be able to flow as if it were a real
moat.

 {6} Castle missing exit point: You have no gates to leave your
castle with.

 {7} Gate blocked by moat: You need to use a bridge so you can
use the gate.

 {8} No free floor for catapult: Your catapult begins on the
first empty section of floor.  Consequentially, you must have at
least one of these in your castle.

 {9} No suitable human shelter: You need to build a shelter (the
large brown building) in your castle.

 {10} No land reserved to farm: Although you can't farm in the
middle of a siege, you must have gotten your food supply from
somewhere!  You need to leave some grassy areas to grow food.

 ABOUT    : The "?" (About) icon will redisplay the title window,
allowing you to change the current difficulty level as described
earlier.

   Player one's castle should face left, and player two's
should face right.  To edit a castle, simply move the flashing
cursor with the mouse.  To select an icon or drawing piece, click
on it with the left button. To draw with the selected item, move
the mouse over the drawing area with the left button down.  The
right button can be used as an eraser.  You may also use the four
cursor keys (the four arrows to the right of the enter key) to
shift your map around.  This will let you center or otherwise
reposition your entire castle easily.

   Once both players have built their strongholds, the game
will begin.  A window with initial kingdom statistics will
appear, indicating both players relative strengths at the start
of the game.  Press the left button to continue.


MOVEMENT
--------

   At this point both players will have an opportunity to
reposition their catapults.  Care must be taken, or you may
accidentally point your catapult in the wrong direction, making
it impossible to attack your opponent.  To move, simply place the
cursor near the catapult in the direction you want it to move,
and press the left button.  The catapult will move towards the
cursor, if possible.  Note that if you move the catapult
backwards, it will turn around; make sure you turn it back the
right way before you stop.  If you click the left button with the
cursor on the catapult, it will turn around without moving.  The
right button ends your movement turn, and will also flip the
catapult if the cursor is on it.


ATTACKING
---------

   Once both players have moved, they will each get a chance to
fire upon their enemy.  To aim, move the mouse left or right to
adjust the angle of fire.  Wind is indicated with a red line,
your aim with a yellow line.  The longer the red line is, the
stronger the wind.  The catapult has a full 180 range in the
direction it is facing.  When ready, hold down the left button to
fire; the longer you hold it down, the more powerful the shot. 
Beware, however, as the catapult may break if stressed too much. 
Knowledge of the nature of vectors will assist you when trying to
aim a shot in the presence of strong winds.

   Keep in mind that your opponent's castle is three
dimensional, and that different parts have different heights. 
The higher something is, the easier it is it hit, because your
shot can hit it at higher points in its arc.  The highest points
are the corner towers, the lowest are the grassy plains.

   To assist your knights, your mages cast spells upon your
catapult bullets so that they will pass through objects until
they reach enemy territory.  This allows you to fire your
catapult within your castle without fear of destroying yourself. 
However, your own shots WILL damage you if they land on your
side; not even your mages can protect you from an aim that poor!


TURNS
-----

   After a few exchanges, a window will open displaying your
progress, with information of population variations and food
supply.  If you don't have enough food, people will begin to
starve.  If your population is reduced to zero, you will lose.


DISASTERS
---------

   Disasters will occur at random intervals, and include such
events as earthquakes, drought, divine intervention, traitors,
and food spoilage.


LEVELS
------

The following table outlines how each level affects the game:

                    +------------+---------+----------+-------+
                    |SQUIRE      |KNIGHT   |THANE     |EMPEROR|
+-------------------+------------+---------+----------+-------+
|OVERALL SPEED      |Slow        |Normal   |Fast      |Fast   |
|WIND TYPE          |None        |Constant |Realistic |Random |
|CHANCE OF DISASTER |3%          |10%      |15%       |20%    |
|POWER SENSITIVITY  |Insensitive |Normal   |Sensitive |Very   |
|OVERALL DIFFICULTY |Easy        |Normal   |Advanced  |Hard   |
+-------------------+------------+---------+----------+-------+


CONCLUSION
----------

   We hope you enjoy playing Catapults.  Any comments,
criticisms or suggestions may be sent to Enchanted Blade
Associates at the address provided at the start of this document.

END OF TEXT
