>-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!----R
>-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-----------R
                        CHAMPIONS OF KRYNN

Typed in by LORD THOR. Edited by PARASITE.


Note: This text makes mention of accompanying maps which are present on this
disk, and can be loaded from the menu.


JOURNAL ENTRIES & TAVERN TALES
Entry 1:Sir ERA sir ERA! We are ultimately responsible for these people!
I dont think that we have the space to accommodate all of these
refuges, considering that Vertrothe will son be back from his
quest.  May I suggest that we send them on their way?  The
simplest solution would be to shut the castle against them & just pretend
they dont exsist...The odious minister to the KNIGHT continues to fawn in the
most obsequious manner. His charm and personality have convinced you
that ridding the world of This...'person'...would be beneficial
to krynn. Fortunately, cooler heads prevail and the minister is
quickly taken from the room.

Entry 2:"Listen, I know that you think that Sir Karl is a most honorable
knight, however, I have found out that he is under the influence
of an Evil Dragon named Maya.  Maya is able to transform herself into
the shape of a beautiful woman.  We must forget anpit finding Caramon
at this time.  If we can get to the outpost in time we may be able to
save it."

Entry 3:"We were captured by draconians disguised as the merchant band that
comes through here every month.  When we were sleeping, they killed the
guards at the gate and captured us before we had a chance to fight."they took
our leaders into the barracks and interrogates them.

They've all got to be dead now."Be careful! I saw one of the Draco's kill the
commandant.  As theCommandant died the Draco's shape changed and then he
looked andsounded exactly like the Commandant."The Commandant and the other
leaders spend a lot of time in theCommandants office."

Entry 4:The townspeople come out and thank you after the last Dragon Armies
aredriven from the outpost.  They have a large celebration with you astheir
guests of honor.

  The new Commandant speaks,"Thanks you for saving us.  Your heroic actions
will live forever"The people cheer as you except the key to the outpost.

Entry 5:The gully dwarves scatter at your approach.  Disgusting traces of
theirrecent meal permeate everything in sight.  Your camp equipment has been
opened and all foodstuffs eaten.  You quickly look to the place where
you had left the piece of the dragon orb, It is gone!

Entry 6:As you walk up to the dying body of the Commandant, Grilliard
says,"Why did you do this to us? We are now too weak to hold the outpost
against Takhisis' forces."You see a flight of Red Dragons closing in on the
town...

Entry 7:As you work to free the slaves, their shackles seemto come off too
easily .  Before you can react, they whip ut weapons and prepare to
attack.  One laughs,"The one you saw die before you was not Sir karl,
it was only a sivak.  There are no slaves here, it was only a story to
lure you to your doom." They begin to close in.

Entry 8:"...Attempt a conversation without the intervention of Tak......book
of spells that contains the necessary incantations and rituals for the
conversation.  It is said that this book will allow even relatively week
ma.....nze, silver, and gold were considered the most difficult trans..."

Entry 11:You follow Angar into one of the buildings.  He yells,"I have a gift
for you!" and you are greeted by a Dragon Highlord and a group of his
minions. As you start to draw your weapons, you realize that ou have
lost a great deal of strength.  He must have drugged the food as well.You
never should have trusted him...

Entry 12:"welcome to the Southern Outpost. I am Grilliard, the commandant
here.

I hear you have important news for me."You tell him about all of the
information that you have gathered. After
all you finish you ask him about the missing messenger.He looks at you a
little nervous for a moment, and then says,"He has
been  ill, Im afraid no one can see him right now.  Thank you for
delivering the information and good luck on your journey back to work."With
that, he waves you out of his office.

Entry 14:"Okey, dokey. Listen up people. Here's how you play. Now I've got
three cards here. Two of them are Gargoyles and the third is the Princess.
I'm gonna place the cards face down on the table, with the Princess in
the middle. Now aaall you have to do is guess where the princess is
after I move the cards around. Easiest thing in the world, right? It's
only three cards and I'm sure you won't have any problem keeping track
of the Princess. Simplest thing in the world. Now, who'll place a small
wager of saaay, 3 steel pieces?"

Entry 15:"Listen,"the woman says, "we..that is, sir Karl and I..have
dtermined that it is imperative that the entire area be evacuated. The number
of undead sightings has increased to an alarming degree. We want you to
head into Gargath and force the population to evacuate immediately.

Thank goodness there are no more Draconians. I don't know how we would
be able to get out if we had them to contend with as well."

Entry 16:The plan has to be carried out in stages. Stage One, which is
already complete, was to threaten various small areas to the north and get
the good armies to begin a consolidation of their forces. We were fortunate
to find a rather hapless party that we were able to use to pass the
false information to their leaders. It was pure chance that they were
sent after Caramon when he was captured in Throtl. We couldn't have
planned better for our purposes. We left clues behind to lead the group
to Gargath, Jelek, and Neraka. This gave us time to complete our plans
for the ambush at Sanction.

Entry 17:...the book of conversion that I found is useless. It doesn't give
us the actual ceremony to perform. It is merely a description of the
ceremony. I will have to come...

Entry 18:Tale of Sir Dargaard:     In the past a faithful Knight of the Rose
named Sir Dargaardgained an item which gave him great fighting prowess. He
was a scourgeof the evil armies until his entire company was poisoned at a
feast.

The company was buried along with Dir Dargaard's great device in lands
later overrun by evil. The evil ones sought to wrest the artifact from
the tobm, but were slain by the spirits of Sir Dargaard and his
company. Our scouts now say that draconians have attempted to penetrate
the tomb again, perhaps with sufficient strength to succeed. It is time
for a truly noble knight to go and ask that the artifact be passed on
to guard the forces for good today. On a side note, you will be happy to know
that Caramon has contacted our elite units in Solamnia. The Council of
Knights themselves will lead them into the coming battles. I will be certain
to mention your impressive record to them when they arrive.
See accompanying map 1 on desktop

Entry 19:The DragonLance was a stroke of genius. With one small theft we
distracted them from the main threat and forced their attention on the
recovery of the weapon. This became Stage Two, since i fit so neatly
with our plans. It allowed us to delay the original kidnapping of Sir
Karl just long enough to gather many more bodies for Sir Lebaum to work
with.

Entry 20:The 'Plan' is to be carried out in three stages. Stage one is nearly
done. We have managed to kill Caramon and Tanis and have captured or
put to flight most of the other 'Hereos' from the Dragonlance Wars. The
good armies are reduced to sending out hapless adventurers who have
little or no experience. We have managed to feed information to one of
those bands with notable success. The information is true, but it
always comes too late to be of any interest.

Entry 21:"Hey, come here. Look at this. This is a piece of dragon orb that
Tasselhoff broke! Just this little piece of orb will allow you to
control the largest dragon! I'll sell it to you for only 2,000 steel
pieces..and its a bargain at twice the price! NO, don't touch it with
your bare fingers. The last person who did that woke up with a witheredhand!
Gruesome. So, what offer have I?"

Entry 22:"Welcome, I am Jadefang. I have been assigned to capture thisss hole
and convinssse you 'Humansss' that you ssstill own it. We did this ssso
we could gather information and keep the sssouthern road open. Sssince
you have given usss a lot of ussseful information, I thank you."   He bows
gracefully and continues to speak.   "However, you also have dissscovered our
sssecret adn therefore you mussst die."   You now notice that he is not alone
in the barracks. He rises into the air...

Entry 23:See accompanying map 2.

Entry 24:Old ogre's story:  "I was once the councillor to the ogre princes,
but I have become too weak and crippled to keep my place. Now I hear of plots
against our lord Gravnak, by one of his lieutenants. Draconians have slipped
into the manor house and will strike when the current meeting ends. I
watched them enter and saw the  secret sign they gave the guards.   I have no
love of these assassins or their traitorous ally. Use the
sign to enter the manor, seek out the aassassins and find evidence
implicating Morog. He is the traitor. His rooms lie in the southeast of
the manor."

Entry 25: "When you get to Gargath, beware of anyone who appears to be
bending over backward to help you. Be especially aware of anyone who mentions
Sir Karl. We don't think that they know that we are now aware of their
deception.  "Be especially careful about any clothing they want you to wear.

There is an evil mage in the town who delights in putting curses on
harmless looking objects. Good luck."

Entry 26: "Gargath was overrun about a week ago. There were only a few of us
here at that time trying to rebuild after the War of the Lance.
Draconians and evil forces snuck in at night and captured the Keep.
Since then they have been bringing in prisoners and putting them to
work. They make us wear these hoods to keep track of us."Entry 27: "We have
ahd to exhume all of the bodies in the graveyard and burn
them. We found out that someone was entering the burial glen, digging
up bodies, and then re©animating tehm into zombies and ghouls. It's
been hard, especially for those that recently buried their loved ones,
but it was necessary."

Entry 28: "I've been kept out of the burial grounds now for a week, I can't
even get in there to get my tools. There are strange things going on in
there...open graves, broken tombstones, strange noises...even the
animals are gone! That Sir Lebaum is running the town. He even made his
office in the burial glen! It's in the building just to the south and
west of here but the door is through the graveyard. "That's another strange
thing...nobody's ever seen our new leader, at
least nobody that I know of. He gives his orders and the 'guards' carry
them out.   "Things just ain't right."

Entry 29:  Stage Four runs almost in step with Stage Three. As soon as Sir
Lebaum has launched his attack, the mass conversion of dragon eggs into
draconians will be perfomed. The good armies will be caught in our
mailed fist! They have no idea that they are about to be attacked by
two huge armies! The first of the good armies will be filled withe
their leaders adn elite of those accursed Knights. When our armies rise
so quickly, we shall cut the very heart of their ability to resist us.

With the leaders dead the rest of the rabble will wander like sheep.

Entry 30: Stage Two is currently coming to fruition. Sir Lebaum, our Sivak
who has taken over the leadership of the Knights of the Rose, has sown
enough discord in the ranks of the Knights to render them ineffective
against us. In a few days he will issue the order that will send most
of the Knights over the mountains and out of this area altogether.

Entry 31:  "Watch out for the minister. They say that he has taken over the
castle of Sir Era and now runs the old knight, as well as the kingdom.
The people are being.. hush! he's here."

Entry 32:  Gravnak's alliance plans:   "We are both hunting for Myrtani while
he seeks our deaths. I have no love for sanctimonious knights and their ilk,
but I do love my life.

To keep that, I would suggest a temporary alliance. Myrtani has a base
in Kernen which he visits quite often. If you can slip into town, I
have allies who will help you penetrate the base and kill Myrtani."    He
then shows you the secret sign to give his allies.Entry 33:  "The Dragonlance
has been moved to Jelak. After the Keep was overrun

I managed to smuggle it out of town and hide it in the burial glen. It
is hidden in an usused tomb in the north©west corner of the graveyard.

You will recognize the entrance because there is a silver rose bush
growing just before it."

Entry 34:  Gravnak and the draconians trun on you. "Fools!" he hisses, "Did
you really think a member of my proud race would ever ally with the likes of
you?"  You are attacked from all sides.

Entry 35:  "I was with a party of knights and others under Caramon that came
in here to explore. We haven't really found anything. Caramons already
left to report. I guess you must have missed him.  "Oh, one thing we did find
out was that there is a treasure left over
from the previous occupants of Throtl. We got word of it from a
hobgoblin who was sneaking in to claim it. Before he died, he told us
that is was located in the south central area of the city. Tell you
what, if you help me find this treasure, I'll split it with you. All
right?"

Entry 36:  "Thank Paladine you're here. They've take everything! My poor
family,my friends and retainers. Gone." He breaks down. After a while he
looks up in anguish and says,   "There's and Aurak who seems to be in charge.
He's had his minions scouring the Keep. He's looking for my dragonlance!
He'll never find it. It's hidden. Hidden very well. Nobody can find it. But
I'll tell you. Yes. Yes, I'll tell you. You're from Caramon? Of Course, of
course. Look on the sixth story. As you come up the stairs you will see
a door directly ahead of you. The wall to the left of that door has a
secret door in it. The Dragonlance is in there."  He looks around in fear.
"Where are they? Where? They were here. I saw them. My little ones. Where are
they? I must go, I must. I will slip out down the stairs. Goodbye, goodbye.
Get the Lance!"

Entry 37:  Stage Three is about to begin. The good armies are marching on
Sanction, and our friendly 'adventurers' are still trying to figure out
how to get the dragonlance. Sir Lebaum has been working in the arena of
Duerghast. He will begin to raise his army of undead as soon as the
good armies are in position. We anticipate that this will take another
day or two. I have Blue Dragons stationed at Duerghast to guard the
eggs adn Red Dragons are waiting to give me word when he has finished
his preperations. When I hear from him the final stage will begin.

Entry 38:  "They're back..back there..who, look out! No, no, no. I stabbed
one, but it took my sword. I couldn't get it out of its body! Caramon!"  His
eyes clear for a moment and he becomes more lucid. "Listen to
me," he says, "they've captured Caramon. Most of our party has been
wiped out."  He suddenly jerks about. "Whats that! Get them! They've got
Caramon.

Find him. I'll find him. North, north and west and south. Traps! Back
up..go back now. Quiet, quiet, quiet..look out! above you! oh no, oh
no, oh no.."  He gets a sly, slightly mad conspiratorial look on his face. "I
saw a money chest in a room to the east. I'm gonna get it and I'm set."He
looks around and leans towards you, "You wanna help? Huh, what do you
say?"  The terrorized look comes back. He screams and gasps in terror.

Entry 39:  The great ship lists to port and seems to pause in silent
anticipation. The sailors jump off like rats. In the distance, a hump
of moving water marks the place where the gigantic whale swims away.
Your boat starts rocking as the waves from his blow to the ship finally
reach you.   The ship finally slips quietly under the waves. The orb fragment
and the Vampire  slide down to their final resting place.

Entry 40:  The road back to Solace is filled with the refugees of Krynn.
Wretched individuals and families carry what possessions they can on
their backs or on small pushcarts and wheelbarrows. They all scan the
sky with fear; waiting for the horrific sight of dragons flying out of
the sun to breath death onto the miserable line of humanity.  The Second
Flight of the Dragons has devastated Krynn. Sanction is a
smoldering lake of lava. Gargath a pile of melted stone, and Neraka has
been blasted into oblivion. Only Jelek and Kernan survive in this part
of the continent; and they have become enclaves of evil. Jelek has

become Sir Lebaums's base of operations, where he continues his
experiments with the undead. Kernan has been taken over by Myrtani and
his horde of newly created draconians.

Entry 41:  The prisoner looks at you with agony as another shudder wracks his
body.  Suddenly, his flesh seems to split and a foul odor permeates the
room! you start to gag adn cough in the middle of the stinking cloud.
The door behind you closes adn you hera the bolt being driven home. You
are trapped!

Entry 42:  The prisoner is extremely weak. He barely croaks out some broken
phrases:  "...the Castellan is alive. He's being held here on this floor..."
"...an Aurak...silver eggs...black dragons...book..."   He grabs you arms and
dies.

Entry 43:  "They have built up a large, wooden structure in front of the
main gates of the Keep. I don't know what it looks like inside. I can tell
you that the main gates are in the upper northwest corner of the city.

In the middle of the city you will find a secret door into the wooden

structure. It is currently being guarded by draconians because it's
location has been discovered recently." He licks his lips in
consternation adn suddenly speaks in hushed intensity, "Listen, there's
a dragonlance in the Keep. I know, all of them were supposed to be sent
South but the Castelllan was injured during the War and his lance was
brought with him when he returned. You must find it!".

Entry 44:  "Ah, come on Grag! You know that we're supposed to guard the grave
of this guy. The captains gonna be mad if he sees us in here. Uh, by the way,
can you buy me a drink? I'm a bit short this week."

Entry 45:See accompanying map 3.

Entry 46:  The tree suddenly explodes! The locket is thrown away from the
enchanted circle. From the swirling ashes of the explosion an ominous
shape slowely rises. Vaguely manlike, it's features are
indistinguishable in the thick smoke. Giant Rats and Mobats charge out
of the impenetrable dust!

Entry 47:  "We've had a lot of unsavory characters passing through town
lately.

The good armies have left us in the lurch and we are forced to take the
law into our own hands in order to protect the citizens of this town.

Here's the official proclomation."  'All persons entering Jelek that are
unknown to the guards shall be assigned an escort for the duration of their
stay in the city. They will be restricted to the public parts of town. The
burial grounds are strictly forbidden to all strangers.'   "It's signed by
our leader, Sir Lebaum.   "So, here's a nice young man who'll show you around
the town.   "Skyla! come over here!"  He introduces you to a man who looks
you over and breaks into a goofy grin. His entire aspect seems dignified
enough, until he smiles or begins to talk, then his ancestry is extremely
questionable and you wonder if maybe he hadn't suffered a fall on his head as
a child.Entry 48:  "Finally, you're here. I got word that Sir Karl was going
to send someone to check this place out. I've been waiting for you for days.
Come with me."

Entry 49:  Sir Karls dying monologue:   "They tortured me to get information,
but I gave them nothing. Killed my guards when they came for me again.
Afraid I didn't quite make it all the way out. Things getting dark... Hard to
concentrate.

There are slaves down there. They must be freed from this evil place...
Remember me to Maya..." His breathing stops.

Entry 50:  Draconians!   I have good news. I have managed to attain the
volume that we hvae been searching for all these years. The power to create
more of our kind is now in my hands. Send me all of your eggs along with any
mages and clerics that you may have with you. I'll be at the Citadel of
Gargath very soon. Have the eggs packed and taken to me within the
week.   By order of Myrtani.

Entry 51:  "The worst monsters our scouts have reported anywhere in the area
arehobgoblins. Draconians and evil dragons have long since abandoned this
area to our forces. Still, be a little wary on your way to throtl.   "Also,
be sure to report back here immediately, if anything unusual
or dangerous occurs. This outpost depends on information brought back
by patrols such as yours. Good luck and may Paladine watch over you."

Entry 52:  The weapons and armor of Solmnic Knights and their allies is
strewn about the corridor. All of them are bent or broken and quite useless.

There is a hole in the ceiling above. It is evident taht the party was
ambushed. There are no bodies.

Entry 53:  Men discussing a rebellion:   "I can't believe that we are letting
an Aurak dictate what we have to do. Its not right. We created them to serve
us, not the other way around. At the meeting I'm going to speak in favor of
restructuring this alliance. Only their slimy blood will flow."

Entry 54:  A large number of human warriors are gathered here. One leaps upon
a table and calls out, 'Who among you wishes to overthrow Myrtani?' As
hands raise throughout the room, archers slip out form behind the
curtains and fire. The man on the table laughs, 'Myrtani will be
grateful for your identifying yourselves.'

Entry 55:  "They say that there is a Vampire that has been enchanted in that
old tree. A very powerful mage trapped him in there before the world was
changed. The only thing that will release him is a piece of the soul of
the mage who trapped him. The mage is long dead, however. The only know
artifact that had any relationship with him is the locket of light. But
that disappeared into the west long ago.

Entry 56:  Sir Karl's last message to Maya: "I realize now that I shouldn't
allow our differences to interfere with our feelings. I suppose at my age it
takes a while to adjust to new things. Remembering your beauty and bravery
has helped me withstand the tortures they have subjected me to. I now go out
to gain my freedom. If i fail, then know I held you in my thoughts to the
end."Entry 57:  Red Dragon's story:   "Once when I was young and my scales
were sleek and smooth, I was appointed protector of the Crown Jewels.
Beautiful they were, glistening in the torchlight. Many a tasty thief came by
to admire them, but I always kept them safe. Then the city fell and the
jewels were lost. Since then I have sought them everywhere. I am sure they
will turn up, so that I can watch their glittering beauty again. The
crown was the prettiest piece, golden and encrusted with gems. Ah, such
a wondrous time."

Entry 58: "Hello, and welcome to Jelek! We hvae recovered so well from the
recent war that we are able to provide you with a guide taht will bow
at your every need. He will direct you to our Inn, where you can rest
in luxurious peace, and point out the exciting new businesses that have
helped to make Jelek the most dynamic twon in all of Krynn."
  He waves over a tall, handsome young man. "this is Skyla."he says,
"He will be your escort for the duration of your stay in Jelek."

Entry 59:  "Listen, I've been following you for some time now. That Skyla
character is the leader of a faction of guards that has taken over the city.
He looks stupid, but don't let that fool you. He knows exactlywhat he looks
like, and he knows how to use it to his advantage. Hetakes his orders from
Sir Lebaum. Lebaum took over about a week ago. It was slow and insidious how
he did it. No word got out at all and,initially, there was lots of business
for our shops. Everyone washappy. Except that now he's cut off all contact
with the outside. Anyone that comes in here either joins the guards or is
killed, as you almost were.   "There's another disturbing thing. I've done
some digging around and nobody has ever seen this Lebaum character. Most
people have never even heard of him. There was a Knight of Solamnia of that
name that was corrupted by Takhisis many, many years ago but legend has it
that he died  horribly, they say. "I'd like to get into the graveyard and
examine his office. Are you willing to go with me?"

Entry 60:  Message on body of Prison Lord:   It has come to my attention that
the bodies we receive here in Sanction from your prisons are in highly
deteriorated condition. We realize that information must be gained by torture
and that it is a useful way to relax, but I would prefer it if a majority of
the bones remained uncrushed. I will not repeat this request. Sir Lebaum

Entry 61:  I want you to find the adventurers and put them out of our misery.
They have served their purpose, now I'm afraid they may find some way to get
word to the good armies. Eliminate that threat.

Entry 62:  Message from assassins. The paper reads:   We have contacted a
traitor at the renegade ogres' base. We can slip in unobserved and slay the
renegade leaders. If we are not successful, beware. Our spy tells us that the
renegades  might try to ally with the forces of good. Their knowledge of
Kernen makes them dangerous.   A rough map is drawn on the back  Sir Karl
then speaks, "The Solamnic Cavalry is already on the march. It will not be
too long until these first units have arrived in the area. We must have
information on the enemy strengths and weaknesses soon. The Solamnic force
will be small and an ambush could cause them problems."

Entry 63: See accompanying map 5.

Entry 64:  WANTED: Soldiers to wage the battle against the Solamnic usurpers
of KRYNN. 5 steel pieces when you sign up and a guaranteed 2 steel pieces a
week until the end of the engagement. See the recruiting officer at the
Southern Sanction Inn for details.

Entry 65:  DRACONIANS!!!  I'm afraid that the book that we spent so much
effort in obtaining has turned out to be more important than we thought!! Not
only are we going to be able to create more Draconians without using eggs,
but it has taught us how to use the dragon orb to make our edxisting Dracians
even more powerful!! The Plan proceeds!  Death to Solamnia!

Entry 66:  The ogres lead you along a twisting corridor. They assure you that
the passage is completely unknown. Gravnak whispers for you to be ready. He
pulls a lever, but instead of the wall opening, the floor drops out from
beneth you. Myrtaniappears next to Gravnak and both begin to laugh.

Entry 67:  "I was with the patrol that followed Caramon in here. We ran into
trouble almost immediately. We were not really expecting much opposition
but...We were ambuushed by a large force of hobgoblins and draconians. I was
knocked out by a blow to the head early in the battle. I awoke in a dark
corner, alone. It took me a while to get my bearings but I finally went out
in search of my companions. I overheard from passing patrols that everybody
except Caramon was killed.  You must help me find Caramon. He must not be
allowed to fall into the hands of the leaders of this band."Entry 68:  As the
vampire grasps the piece of orb a deep trembling shakes his being! Blood
begins to run from his eyes and ears as a high keening sound forces your
party to hold thierheads in anguis. The Vampire is desperately trying to rid
himself of the glass object. It will not leave his hand! Old Rimshanks' spell
of permanent binding is working!

Entry 69:  WEARY TRAVELERS! Come to the best accommodations on KRYNN! The
SOUTHERN SANCTION INN is open for your business. We are located in the
southeast of the city.  THE DRAGON'S CURSE is open for business in the middle
of Sanction. We have the best selection of drinks since Istar sank beneath
the sea.Nonhumans welcome!!  IF YOU GOT THE MONEY, WE'VE GOT WHAT YOU
WANT!!While our inventory had been decimated by the recent war, we are again
open and offering the finest in magical items available. As always, if we
don't have it, we will find it, or make it. All we need is time and money.
GUSMARKEN'S MAGIC SHOP. Located in the eastern©central area of the city. We
are the first door to the right, heading north from the inn.  THE SHARPEST,
MOST DURABLE WEAPONS MONEY CAN BUY!Come to our smithy, located jest north of
the Southern Sanction Inn, and peruse our fine selection of blades, armaor,
arrows, darts and anything else you could possibly need to equip your party.
REASONABLE RATES!!  SO, YOU THINK YOU'VE EARNED THE RIGHT TO ADVANCE TO THE
NEXT LEVEL?Horgathindorn's training Hall has worked with the best! Come see
us in the Northeast Corner and see if you've got what it takes!

Entry 70:  "Listen,I've been following you for some time. You need to get to
Jelek as quickly as possible. There are rumors that Sir Karl is about to
attack the town in order to get the last Dragonlance that remains in our
hands. Once you arrive, a resistance worker will join your group as an
escort. Jelek has become prosperous lately and they are requiring all
visitors to be escorted through the town. aThe stated reason is to  show new
visitors around the town, the real reason is to keep an eye on all newcomers
and prevent anyone getting into the graveyard. Our man's name is Skyla, as
soon as you arrive he will be able to join your group and help you find the
dragonlance that the castellan hid."

Entry 71:  Myrtani is gathering his forces in secret areas around Sanction.
We won'tbe ready for a few weeks yet. My minions have started gathering
materials for my use. Several graveyards have been looted alredy. Many of
them have left the open grave sites unfilled. I suppose it can't be helped.
Stupidity has always been our most dangerous enemy.  Myrtani has found the
dratgonlance! I urged him to give it to his strongest warior but I'm afraid
that the draconian doesn't trust anyone who could hold that muck power.
Foolish. He's going to hide it away somewhere in Sanction.

Entry 72: See accompanying map 6.

Entry 73:  "After the battle I was taken to see a powerful cleric. He laughed
at my defeat. They lead my to some doors that glowed in the darkness, opened
them with a key that he pulled from his robes, and took me to a dark temple.
I saw a bronze dragon egg on the alter! He told me that they were going to
start the corruptions again! Then he had his minions beat me.  "I woke up
here. If it hadn't of been for the treachery of a dark elf, and a sneak
attack from behind, they never would have captured me." He pauses. "I'm sorry
for my men."he says,"They had no idea what we were getting into. Krynn's
blood I didn't know either. We were unprepared for the extent of the evil
forces.  "The ambush was a complete sutprise."Entry 74:Tanis's tale: "I had
heard of the slaves being taken in the area, so disguised myself and arranged
to be captured. I have just managed to free the slaves here, but more are
held to the south. I will organize the slaves here while you free the others.
Then we will arrange a diversion to allow the slaves a chance to escape."

Entry 75:  "I am the only one left from the ambush. I was knocked out early
in the combat. By the time I came to, the enemy was gone. Caramon is dead. I
figure that they must have ganged up on him first. His was the only body left
behind. You don't want to know what condition they they left him in.
Evidently they wanted to leave a warning to anyone who comes after him. It
was awful. I laid him out as best I could and have been working my way out of
Throtl. We must get back and warn the Outpost!  "I don't understand how they
could have known that we were coming. The ambush was obviously well planned.
They knew exactly who was with us and exactly how to counter any attack we
could muster."

Entry 76:...friend has many objects of value for sale......great frog
collection!!!......sword that seems magical, at least undead creatures are
afraid of it...many potions for sale......information about the incidents of
undead and dracians in the area.....a beautiful daughter...

Entry 77:  Base Cammander's papers. You find:  A list of orders authorizing
an attack on the knight's outpost.  A supply list, consisting mostly of
implements of torture signed by someone known as the Prison Lord.  The final
page is a order to turn all slain prisoners over to a Sir Lebaum.

Entry 78:  "Now, what do you know about that? They say that a real
dragonlance has been found in the hills to the east. It also carries an
enchantment that will force any dragon to your will if you but wound the
beast."

Entry 79:  Gravnak's stary about the Gaurdian:  "The ooldest rulers of Kernen
ordered the city's mages to create a deadly guardian for thier castle. How
they did it no one knows, but the magicians gave this to the king. Over the
years it became unruly and was locked in the vaults below this building. We
know of no way to harm it or chase it back to the vaults where it was kept.
All we know is that an ancient tome in the library contains a recipe for a
salve that will protect the wearer from the gaurdian's deadly bolts. You must
construct this salve in the alchemist's study before tou can succeed in
passing the guardian."

Entry 80:  A few days after that, Stage three will begin. We have taken the
piaces of the dragon orb that the kender shattered and have placed them in
stratigic spots all around Sanction. Raistlin's researches has determined
that, under the right conditions, even a piece of the dragon orb can act as a
powerful lure for dragons. Furthermore, each piece can be turned to a
particular type of dragon. He has been lost to us since the War, but his dark
elf assistant has managed to create the spellout of Raistlin's notes. With
our captured Dragonlances, we will destroy all the good dragons that remain
in Krynn, and our final victory will then be all but assured.

Entry 81: See accompanying map 7.

Entry 82:  "So! At last, you've come to rescue me. You know these things are
quite clever. Not clever enough for my of course. I've just been improving
them somewhat. Oh dear. I do hope you didn't come through from the
North..oh,sorry.  "I suppose you'll be wanting to get me out of here now. Oh,
there are more people back there. Strangbourn is around here somewhere. He's
looking for Caramon. Oh, you want to find him, well that's an interesting
story, you see when we first got together about two weeks ago...  "Uh, I can
help, you know. Caramon was taken somewhere south of here. I've been trying
to reses traps in case more draconians and hobgoblins get here.  "Why don't
we team up, OK?"

Entry 83:  "...the minotaurs have refused to come to our aid. They are touchy
beasts and I'm afraid that our emissary was less than diplomatic. We will
attempt to contact them again but don't count on having thier..."  The
fragment ends.

Entry 84:  "...we have contacted the minotaurs. They will help us. I must go
to Gargath. It is rumored that there is a dragonlance stored there. We must
secure the keep and find the treasure room that is hidden there. The map of
the keep shows these places where we believe the secret door may be located.
Give this map to your officers and..."  The fragment ends.

Entry 85:  "The cavernous maw of the great beast is used as the entrance to
the temple. The dragon's head is being artificially preserved through magic.
We need the dragon's fangs in order to complete our spell. If they can be
brought to us we can prevent draconians from ever...

See accompanying map 8.

Entry 87:  "I am Angar, one of the real guards of the outpost. We were
overrun about a week ago by a draconian army. I was coming in from a patrol
when I saw them taking over. They were everywhere..." He slumps down on the
bed. You notice that he desperetely needs food and rest, but he waves off
your help and continues his story,  "I hid and they missed me, but they
captured most of the other guards. They are being held in the outpost jail.
Also, they're guarding the north side of town heavily. I think they might
have hostages there too."

Entry 88:  "Just before the Temple of Duerghast was closed, dead bodies were
seen being carried into the arena in the Temple's northwest corner. There
were hundreds of them. It has been discovered that the Death Knight, Sir
Lebaum, has taken over the Temple and has gathered together the exhumed dead
for miles around.  "There is no way that you can get into the temple through
the front gates. You must get the shadowpeoples support. They have tunnels
that cross from the temple of Huerzyd to the Temple of Duerghast." She pulls
out an amulet. "This amulet will let you through a secret door. The
Shadowpeople will find you once you enter
Huerzyd."

TAVERN TALES

Tale 1:  "Hey, Jorclack! You wanta' play tonight? I think we can get at least
two other guys. I'm gonna win those steel pieces back from you."

Tale 2:  "Even giants are being seen nearer the outpost. Glad we have some
rangers and dwarves in the company."

Tale 3:  "Kernen can no longer be approached at all. Too many dragons in the
air."

Tale 4:  "Hey, Jorclack! What in blazes were you doing up in the slum area?
You rubbin' shoulders with the local scum?"

Tale 5:  "There are secret doors that lead into the old entrance to the keep.
The Draconians have built up around the entrance in order to prevent people
from getting into it."

Tale 6:  "The Castellan of Gargath was rumored to be holding a dragonlance in
one of his treasure rooms. With it we can prevail against the evil dragons."

Tale 7:  "Here's a drink to all the knights buried in Jelek's Graveyard, may
they rest in peace forever."

Tale 8:  "I hear that they're gonna be hiring mercenaries down in Sanction. I
say we get out of this hick town and go down to where some real action is."

Tale 9:  "Strange how those folks in Jelek fooled us so well. Evil has always
been skilled at duplicity."

Tale 10:  "I hear that Sanction is slowely being infested with Ogres,
Minotaurs and Draconians. The Temple of Duerghast is even showing signs of
life. It would be a dark day indeed if that place comes back."

Tale 11:  "It's good to see that Jelek is holding against the tide of evil."

Tale 12:  "We've been finding lots of emptied graves. Someone is collecting
bodies."

Tale 13:  "With Sir Dargaard's treasure rescued, we are sure to push the
draconians back."

Tale 14:  "Those blasted Minotaurs have taken over the entire western section
of town! The docks are almost completely under their control. Those that
aren't are the pleasure boat docks that don't have any warehouses. How am I
supposed to get my lumber into the city if I can't use the port? Things are
going from bad to worse down here. I should have stayed in Jelek."

Tale 15:  "Enemy scouts have been patrolling closer to the outposts. They'll
be on the run when the good armies get there."

Tale 16:  "Now lissen here, yer Red Dragon is by far the best at
nose©to©nose, claw to claw fightin'. But for breathin', gimme a green any
day."

Tale 17:  "A young woman has her eye on Sir Karl. Its making him
uncomfortable."

Tale 18:  "Maya's on the warpath, she's always been sweet on ol Sir Karl."

Tale 19:  "Draconians have been seen near Throtl. Things are heating up."

Tale 20:  "...There's something weird going on here. My son was saying that
he saw a zombie. I told him he was crazy...but I don't know, he's not usually
given to making up stories..."

Tale 21:  "...so I was sayin', why we gotta do all this stuff? Why don't we
just go down there and take the thing? And you know what, thats exactly what
we did. That Lance is ours! Of course, my officer took all the credit for
himself. Cretin. He couldn't hold the dull end of a sword if he didn't have
us to teach him..."

Tale 22:  "Throtl is starting to crawl with monsters. Some of our scouts have
been harassed."

Tale 23:  "Its been too quiet for too long. Something's got to happen soon."

Tale 24:  "Scouts are starting to report evil forces on the march
everywhere."

Tale 25:  "Enemy patrols hold most of the cities in the area. Hope the army
gets here soon. It's galling to let them operate so openly."

Tale 26:  "It's a shame that people on our side could just abandon the slaves
that way."

Tale 27:  "The sluaghtered wagon train was carrying a magic tome. Perhaps it
held the secret of the corruption process."

Tale 28:  "The evil forces have dragon eggs. We can look forward to more
draconians if they can rediscover the corruption process."

Tale 29:  "Once the armies are here, we will sweep the area clean of evil for
the final time."

Tale 30:  "I thought that the good armies had destroyed the Draconians! Well
it just goes to show you can't trust anyone anymore. Where are the Solamnic
Knights now? Why weren't they here when those foul reptiles took over our
town."

Tale 31:  "...I tell you that grave was breathin'! The dirt was risin' up and
down, just like it was takin in air. I lit outa there as fast as these stumpy
legs could carry me..."

Tale 32:  "...a silver dragon! They say they loved each other but how do you
figure? What can a man and a dragon do? I don't know. I got sick and tired of
all the moping about." "It's a shame about Sir Karl though. They say he was
killed up north somewhere. He was an OK guy. Treated you right."

Tale 33:  We got the fires out, but the enemy escaped with Sir Karl. Those
Auraks can control the minds of our toughest people."

Tale 34:  "Nothing's been seen in Throtl for months. The place is boring."

Tale 35:  "Annoying guides they give you in Jelek, but i suppose they can't
be too careful."

Tale 36:  "A moment of silence for Sir Karl, a brave knight of the Rose. He
truly followed the Oath and the Measure."

Tale 37:  "The draconians were led by an Aurak. They're very deadly."

Tale 38:  "I wonder if they could have saved Sir Karl's life if they tried
harder."

Tale 39:  "I tell you I saw dragons! They were flying around the top of the
keep! Black ones they were. Except for one real big one. I think it was red."

Tale 40:  "Don't drink the beer. The bartender washes his feet in it."

Tale 41:  "No, he never came back. He was on a boat that went out onto the
Blood Sea of Istar and never came back. Somebody said they actually went down
the Maelstrom...but that's crazy, nobody would sail close to that
thing...anyway I haven't been able..."

Tale 42:  "What ever happened to that Dragonlance that the Castellan had
during the last war? I know for a fact that it was never returned to the good
armies. Blast it man, I was with the Castellan's armorer, all of the weapons
went through us and that dragonlance was never returned!"

Tale 43:  "The enemy's rear guard was seen heading south. Too bad most of us
are stuck guarding this outpost, we could chase them down in a few days."

Tale 44:  "Gargath is crawling with evil forces. Hopefully Caramon can raise
the armies quickly."

Tale 45:  "I've heard they ignored Sir Karl's last wish and let the slaves
fend for themselves."

Tale 46:  "It was the strangest thing. I was walking past the old building by
the graveyard, you know, the one with no door on this side, and I was hit by
an incredible cold wind. You know how warm it was yesterday. It only hit me
for a second, but it was scary."

Tale 47:  "The armies will be here soon. This time it will be a quick war.
The evil forces can't compete."

Tale 48:  "...yeah, I went to see the guy. He said he didn't need tired old
scum! The bleepard said nobody who lives in Sanction is good enough for his
army. He's spread the word that professional soldiers are needed. Humph.
Didn't I fight with Tanis and Caramon in teh last war? ...Scum, he said!"

Tale 49:  "I've heard that Caramon has gotten the first elements fo the army
on the march. They'll soon be here."

Tale 50:  "...every graveyard within a hundred miles of this place has been
looted. Graves left open, tombs cracked and broken. It's eerie. Funny thing
though, a lot of valuable stuff has been left behind. Weapons and armor was
gone, but any jewelry or other items of value that was buried along with them
is still there. Another thing, some of these tombs look as if they were
opened from the inside..."

Tale 51:  "Yeah, Sanction is gonna start up trade again. Me and Lancrent are
gonna go down there and start up our lumber import business again. The docks
are rebuilt and open for business."

Tale 52:  "Too bad about all those slaves in Neraka, slaughtered and hauled
off and enslaved again as undead."

Tale 53:  "...the Shadowpeople are still around. They say they've got tunnels
that run all around underneath the city. That captain that's trying to hire
mercenaries is pumping people for information about the Shadowpeople and
their tunnels. He's stupid though. Nobody finds those tunnels if the
Shadowpeople don't want 'em found at least, if they're found, nobody
returns to tell about it."

Tale 54:  "It was a good thing they found the good dragon eggs in the prison.
I've heard that the good dragons are heading down because of that."

Tale 55:  "That was the draconian leader that led the attack. He's an Aurak
named Myrtani."

Tale 56:  "Who are these guys that have taken over? I see soldiers with the
number 101 tatooed on their arms. What gives?"

Tale 57:  "Those rescued slaves had horrible stories to tell. We're sure glad
they were helped to escape."
