                                GRAVITY

Typed in by THE MIGHTY CLOG. Edited by PARASITE. (LDS version cracked
by SHAGRATT.


KEYBOARD CONTROLS.
F1  -  Open DRIVE window
F2  -  Open DEFENCE window
F3  -  Open FOUR-SPACE display & Toggle Solid/Wire frame contours
F4  -  View DAMAGE control
F5  -  Open WEAPONS window
F6  -  Open HOLOTANK
F7  -  Toggle RADAR On/Off
F8  -  Open TOOLS window
F9  -  Access COMPUTER

HELP  -  Toggle Mouse control of Scoutcraft On/Off

Default settings of the re-definable keys:

RIGHT SHIFT  -  'UP'/Activate Scoutcraft drive (Thrust)
CAPS LOCK    -  'DOWN'
Z            -  'LEFT'/Rotate left (Anti-clockwise)
X            -  'RIGHT'/Rotate right (Clockwise)
D            -  Activate defense
R            -  Recall drones
T            -  Activate tool
S            -  Swap drive
SPACE BAR    -  Activate weapon slot one
M            -  Activate weapon slot two
P            -  Pause (Press any key to unpause)

INTRODUCTION
You had all the time in the universe with a mission to colonise it. But your
time's just run out. Now the Outies are out to play it's got serious.
It's become a mission of...

GRAVITY
In 2320, interstellar travel has become as commonplace as Intercity, and man's
mission to colonise the universe is well underway.
But then the Outies appeared. No-one Knew where they came from, but it was
obvious what they were after... energy. And they's stop at nothing to get it.
They favour charged Black Holes. And they just turned your latest colony into
one....
It's pay-back time. A spiral arm wrestle. But this galaxy's not big enough for
the both of you. Something's got to give. Just make sure that it's the Outies
on the receiving end.

NB! For the purpose of saving your progress in the event of being unable to
continue play, we recommend you have a Save Game Disk to hand.
Please ensure that it is blank and has been formatted.

YOUR OBJECTIVE
Eradicate the entire Outie fleet... or die trying.
The only way of permanently removing the Outies from the galaxy is to turn
their system's Black Hole back into a sun and destroy their home base.
Preferably before they turn your sun into a Black Hole....

GAME OVER
When all your forces are lost at the hands of the Outies or your home system's
sun is turned into a Black Hole and your home base is destroyed...
That's Game over.

THE ENVIRONMENT
Gravity concerns a small fragment of the Milky Way Galaxy: a Spiral arm
comprising 128 randomly generated Solar Systems from 65536 permutations. This
vast system is yours to explore - and you'd better. Get out and colonise as
many planets as possible, then use your technologically developing colonies to
keep track of Outie activity and ultimately trace its source.

The Dateline is January 01, 2321. With the United Nations Scout ship Hawking
under your direct control, and 15 other scoutcraft at your disposal, your
mission begins.

CONTROL
The mouse is used extensively, so plug it into port 0. The keyboard also has
it's uses, mainly as an alternative to the mouse (See Keyboard Summary).

LET YOUR FINGER DO THE POINTING
The mouse moves the 'handy' pointer around the screen. Use the pointer's finge
as a point of reference. Two quick preses of the left-hand mouse button (ie. a
double click) more often than not selects a function.

WHAT'S WHAT (Where And Why)
The gravity environment is primarily icon-driven through windows.
Open a window by moving the pointer to the relevant icon and double-clicking
the left-hand mouse button. Close a window by double clicking on the close
box (like GEM). This is often found in the top left-hand corner of a window, o
failing that in the centre of the panel at the bottom of the screen.
Alternatively, don't bother to close windows - just select another function to
close the one in action.

Should you need to move the window elsewhere on screen, simply touch a 'clean'
are of its border with the pointer and press and hold down the left-habd mouse
button.

MODULES
This bit is pretty hard for me to describe, 'cause it's all refering to a
screen shot of the main game screen, so I'll just say 'Top-left' or
'Bottom-right' etc. Each module can also be called up by hitting a function
key, so I'll mention the appropriate key in brackets after each module name:

Long range radar    -  Top left
Status display      -  Top middle
Short range radar   -  Top right
Shipboard computer  -  Keyboards at left & right  -  (F9)

The following modules are found from left to right at the bottom of the screen

Drives           -  (F1)
Defences         -  (F2)
The grid         -  (F3)
Damage control   -  (F4)
Weapons          -  (F5)
The cube         -  (F6)
Radar selection  -  (F7)
Tools            -  (F8)

SCOUTCRAFT
The United Nations Scout ship featured in Gravity first entered service in 211
There have been improvements made since, but all have been minor and not worth
of mention. The 16 scoutcraft at your disposal all come identically equipped -
it's up to you to improve them where necessary.

FLEET ROLL

BELL                   COLUMBUS
EINSTEIN               EUCLID
HAWKING                GAGARIN
HERSCHEL               LOVELACE
MAGELLAN               MINKOWSKI
NEWTON                 PODOLSKI
RIEMANN                ROSEN
SALLY RIDE             TERESHKOVA

DIMENSIONS
Length  :  1800m
Height  :  500m
Width   :  100m

DRIVE
Three drive slots are available.

Initial configuration:
Slot one    :  Ion Drive
Slot two    :  Orion system
Slot three  :  Empty

WEAPONS
Four weapons slots are available - the top usually contains an energy weapon,
with missiles often stored in the other three. The contents automatically
shuffle 'down' to slot one when a weapon is either exhausted or damaged.
Eight spare missiles are provided as standard.

INITIAL CONFIGURATION:
Slot one    :  Nova gun
Slot two    :  Missile
Slot three  :  Missile
Slot four   :  Missile

DEFENCES
Four defence slots are available. As with the weapons, the contents shuffle
'down' to slot one when a defence system is either exhausted or damaged.

Initial configuration:
Slot one    :  Drone
Slot two    :  Drone
Slot three  :  Drone
Slot four   :  Drone

COMPUTER
Five key systems are housed here:

COMMUNICATIONS
Prepares and receives jump sond (That might be meant to be 'sound', but it
says 'sond' in the manual... so 'sond' it is !!!) transmissions and messages.

NAVIGATION
Calculates Collapsar jumps and planetary orbits.

DISPLAY
Responsible for creating the strategic and tactical displays.

PROGRAMMING
For drones, tools and missiles.

DAMAGE CONTROL
Provides limited repair to other computer sub-systems.

POWER UNITS
Powered by Nuclear fusion.

FUEL TANK
Refuel with hydrogen, either by calling at a colony, or skimming a gas giant.

CONTROLLING A SCOUTCRAFT
Move the mouse in the direction you wish the scoutcraft to face.
Depressing the left-hand button activates the scoutcraft's drive (ie. Applies
thrust). Pressing the right-hand button activates Weapon slot one, with slot
two activated via the keyboard. Just be careful not to shoot other Terran
scoutcraft, drones or even your own missiles. Alternatively, use the keybaord.

STATUS DISPLAY
Shows ship time, real time, current location, battle data, nominal status,
elapsed time, plus any other information regarding the scoutcraft currently
under your control. A single click of the left-hand mouse button with the
pointer on either of the computer display keyboards cycles through this
information.

SHIP TIME
Shown in hours, minutes, month and year.

REAL TIME
Not real time, as in the real world, but time relative to Starcom.

CURRENT LOCATION
The position of the scoutcraft under your direct control.

BATTLE DATA
Any information regarding damage to the scoutcraft currently under control.

NOMINAL STATUS
The current status of the scoutcraft you control shown as a percentage of full
capacity. Remaining fuel is also displayed in lbs.

ELAPSED TIME
This is the real time. Just to let you know how long play's been in progress.

DAMAGE CONTROL
This rotating 3D view of the scoutcraft currently under control allows you to
see at a glance any damage incurred. All damaged functions flash red.
Non-modular damage is self repairing - the replacement of lost drives,
defences, weapons and tools on the other hand, is not. The top slots of these
modules are filled by any available back-up systems, but when they run out,
it's time for you to visit your nearest stockist - ie. a colony.

RADARS
Both radars cannot be opened at once, which is why one closes as the other
opens.

LONG RANGE RADAR
The shades of colour represent differing depths of gravity well.
To help you find your way around, lines emmited from the craft point to stella
or planetary boundaries.

GREY   -  Sun
GREEN  -  Planet
BLUE   -  Black Hole

SHORT RANGE RADAR
Used primarily for combat. The grey plateau reresents the immediate vicinity o
Four-Space around the scoutcraft you currently control.

DRIVES
Decide how to drive your scoutcraft. A choice of five systems are available.
A single click on the drive of your choice puts it in the top (active) slot.

SHORT RANGE
ION DRIVE        -  Preferred by many pilots as a back-up drive.
LIGHTSAIL        -  Requires no internal power, as it's motive force is
                    pressure of the solar wind against a giant reflective Myla
                    sail.
BUSSARD RAMJET   -  Can be found more or less anywhere, which is an indication
                    of it's quality.
ORION SYSTEM     -  Looks very impressive !!
GRAVITIC WARPER  -  Only available from the more technologically advanced
                    systems.

LONG RANGE
COLLAPSAR JUMP  -  The craft falls into a Black Hole and continues in a
                   straight line in zero time until another Black Hole is
                   reached, whereupon the ship reappears with the same velocit
                   it originally had. Your ship's on-board computer can
                   calculate the Collapsar of origin of any craft seen emergin
                   from the jump, and you can thus track the Outies to their
                   home system.

WEAPONRY
Four types available from two general categories...

ENERGY WEAPONS
LASERS        -  The least powerful weapon system - Useful for close action.
NOVA GUN      -  Similar to a laser, only after a short period of time the
                 energy in the beam forms a Quantum Black Hole (Q. What the
                 fuck is a Quantum Black Hole ???) which immediatley
                 evaporates and results in an enormous release of energy in a
                 very short period of time.
MESON CANNON  -  Creates high energy Mesons and directs them at targets.
                 The nature the Meson is that it passes through all shields
                 and matter without resistance.

MISSILES
To pick up a missile and place it into an empty weapoms slot, simply point to
the missile icon at the bottom of the window (the quantity available is shown
at the right) and drag the missile.
A single click with the pointer positioned on the missile slot calls up the
missile diagram, allowing you to alter the specification of the missile.
NB! Not all missile parts work together, which is why you sometimes can't
select certain items.

WARHEAD
FUSION BOMB  -  Standard high explosive.
SHAFTER      -  Any matter within the very steep gravity well produced is torn
                apart by tidal forces.

DRIVES
SHORT BURN             -  Limited thrust
CONSTANT ACCELERATION  -  The missile thrusts 'til it 'busts

GUIDANCE
FREE FLIGHT  -  The missile travels in the direction it was launched.
HOMING       -  The missile chases the nearest available target.

DETONATOR
CONTACT  -  For touch-sensitive missiles.
TIMED    -  Detonates after a period of time.

(I'll make no comment on the possibility of a 'Touch-sensitive, Limited-Thrust
Shafter' Missile !!!!)

DEFENCE

DRONES
Small robot craft intended to harass and confuse the enemy. Their behaviour is
pre-programmed with the Combat-Oriented-Language (COL).

Drive      :  Ion
Weaponary  :  Laser

To view and select a Drone's available Drone control programs, firstly pick up
and place the required drone icon on the top (active) slot. A single-click on
the left-hand mouse button calls up the Drone's four program slots, allowing
you to point to the desired DCP and 'activate' it with a further single click.

BLACK GLOBE GENERATOR
Projects a barrier which absorbs all energy and transfers it to on-board
capacitors for storage. Ships with Black globe active may not move, fire or
communicate. A single click toggles the Globe on and off.

TOOLS
Intelligent machines constructed for the purposes of Terraforming and gravitic
engineering. In order to colonise, you need to launch a colony module, for
which this module is required. The display shows three hatch covers of launch
tubes, with (above) windows displaying the tube's contents.
A single click on 'I' - a list of tools available. Top left corner shows how
many modules are available. Drag the tool to the required window.
Tools shuffle down to the next tube when a tube is launched or damaged.
To replace a tool, simply pick up the replacement and place it in the tube.
The old tool is then placed in stores.

COLONY MODULE
Lauch one in the vicinity of a suitable planet to create a colony.
Each scoutcraft comes initially equipped with four.

CYGNUS
Forms a Collapsar from any sun or gas giant. Only one supplied as standard.

REMOTE ENGINEERING DEVICE (RED)
The Black Hole in the Outie's home system is evaporated by using an
appropriately programmed RED. Six are supplied as standard.

GENESIS
Remote Terraforming device which Terraforms and rocky planet. It's the only
tool actually capable of creating a planet, which is why at first you only hav
one to play with.

EXAMINING TOOLS
Open a tube and call up Tool Data Form by double-clicking the left mouse butto
ove a hatch cover. Only the RED data can be changed, using the appropriate
arrows or 'No change'.

BUYING EQUIPMENT
Extra equipment is only available from colonies. But to purchase equipment you
need cash, and seeing as you start with none you have to earn it.
Money is only aquired through damage - a œ1 for every hit given or taken.

WELCOME TO STARCOM
STAR COMmand is your home base - lose it and you lose the game. It's also the
main centre of strategy, acting as a form of computer aid by offering advice i
the form of missions. Starcom Activity is initially set at 50%, but if you fee
the need you can alter it anywhere between 0% and 99% via the ships computer.
With StarCom activity at maximum, the computer gives orders to your scoutcraft
fleet. Minimum activity means that all orders are given by you and you alone.
Any values in between determine the ratio of computer and player orders.
Whatever the vale of StarCom activity, you are free to over-ride any computer-
given orders.

MISSIONS
No sooner has the game begun then mission details arrive courtesy of StarCom.
To accept the mission, simply get out there and do your stuff (the destination
is automatically set in your ships computer). If, on the other hand, you want
to embark on an alternative mission, access the ship-board computer and simply
discard it. StarCom missions include....

EXPLARATION
Discover information about a system, such as size and types of planetary
bodies.

TERRAFORMING
To prepare the way for colinisation by firther expeditions, you need to tidy u
the planetary system beforehand - by removing problems such as asteroid belts.

MILITARY ACTION
Visit an Outie occupied system, either to hassle them or to remove them for
good.

COLONY PROTECTION
Protect a convoy of colonists on its journey to the colony worlds, and maintai
interdiction for a time while the colony sets up its defences.

ROUTE CONSTRUCTION
Some areas of the Spire Arm are unreachable with the Black Holes available,
which means sending a scoutcraft through normal space to establish another
Black Hole, which may then be used for transport. These missions take time
and you are advised not to take personal charge.

YOUR SHIP-BOARD COMPUTER
A single-click of the left mouse button while pointing the either keyboard
cycles through the status display information. A double-click opens the window
for options.

DISC
Load or Save your position. This is only available at colonies of Tech Level
4 or higher. A single click on the top name allows you to enter the name of
your saved game via the keyboard.

PROGRAM
Determine your drones behaviour with the Combat Oriented Language.

COMMS
Review orders or re-stock equipment. To discard current orders, double-click
this icon and new orders will be requested.

OPTIONS
BINDINGS  -  Allows you to re-defines the keyboard controls.
STARCOM   -  Alter the degree of autonomy of StarCom.
ABORT     -  Restart the game, with all settings cleared to default.
NEW GAME  -  Leave settings alone, and start a new game.

COLONISING
The only place you but supplies is at a colony. Colonies are also used for
receipt of information and missions.

CREATING A COLONY
Should you come across a colony that fails to meet your requirements, simply
transform it. Tools are used to change the three variable characteristics of
stellar and planetary bodies. The greater the change, the more energy is
required and hance more tools.
Genesis and Cygnus devices perform their respective functions irrespective of
the values detailed below, but neither item is widely available.
The abundant REDs on the other hand are limited to five units of energy for
the purpose of change, which means in some instances you may need more than
one.

DIAMETER
Altered at a cost of 3 energy units for every 1000Km difference.

BIOSPHERE
Takes 1 unit to effect a change.

COMPOSITION
HYDROGEN     -  Suns and gas giants
ROCKY        -  Earth, Venus, Mars Asteroids etc.
NEUTRONIUM   -  Neutron stars.
SINGULARITY  -  Black Holes (So dense it doesn't actually exist)

Hydrogen to rocky          -  2 units
Rock to hydrogen           -  2 units
Rocky to neutronium        - 10 units
Neutronium to rocky        - 10 units
Neutronium to singularity  - 35 units
Singularity to neutronium  - 35 units

Once a colony has been established, it's Technological level develops
independantly. The greater the number of Terran planets in a sector, the
faster their Tech level (Represented by 'T') advances.
Successful Outie attacks reduce a colonies Tech level.

TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT
A colonies Tech level develops as follows:

T3
Drives    :  None
Defences  :  Drones
Weapons
Energy    :  None
Missile   :  Drives
Tools     :  None

T4
Drives    :  Orion system
Defences  :  Drones
Weapons
Energy    :  Lasers
Missile   :  Drives
             Guidance
Tools     :  Colony

T5
Drives    :  Orion system
             Bussard Ramjet
Defences  :  Drones
Weapons
Energy    :  Lasers
             Nova gun
Missile   :  Drives
             Guidance
             Detonators
Tools     :  Colony

T6
Drives    :  Orion system
             Bussard ramjet
             Light sail
Defences  :  Drones
Weapons
Energy    :  Lasers
             Nova gun
             Meson cannon
Missile   :  Drives
             Guidance
             Detonators
             Warheads
Tools     :  Colony

T7
Drives    :  Orion system
             Bussard ramjet
             Light sail
             Ion drive
Defences  :  Drones
Weapons
Energy    :  Lasers
             Nova gun
             Meson cannon
Missile   :  Drives
             Guidance
             Detonators
             Warheads
Tools     :  Colony
             Cygnus

T8
Drives    :  Orion system
             Bussard Ramjet
             Light Sail
             Ion drive
             Gravitic warper
Defences  :  Drones
Weapons
Energy    :  Lasers
             Nova gun
             Meson cannon
Missile   :  Drives
             Guidance
             Detonators
             Warheads
Tools     :  Colony
             Cygnus
             Genesis

T9
Drives    :  Orion system
             Bussard ramjet
             Light sail
             Ion drive
             Gravitic warper
Defences  :  Drones
Weapons
Energy    :  Lasers
             Nova gun
             Meson cannon
Missile   :  Drives
             Guidance
             Detonators
             Warheads
Tools     :  Colony
             Cygnus
             Genesis

T10
Drives    :  Orion system
             Bussard ramjet
             Light sail
             Ion drive
             Gravitic warper
Defences  :  Drones
             Black globe
Weapons
Energy    :  Lasers
             Nova gun
             Messon cannon
Missile   :  Drives
             Guidance
             Detonators
             Warheads
Tools     :  Colony
             Cygnus
             Genesis

THE GRID
The active gridwork (or solid contoured plan at the press of F3) in the centre
is Einstein-Minkowski Four-Space. All subns, planets, Black holes and the like
impose their gravity wells on the web of Four-Space, while spacecraft and
other smaller objects react to gravity wells and other gravimetric phenomena
in terms of Newtonian mechanics.

NB! Due to memory limitations, the starfielsd does not appear on machines with
less then 1MB.

WHAT THE COLOURED GRID MEANS
Green Four-Space represents Deep Space, but this and colours of Four-Space
represent the presence of stellar or planetary bodies.

GREEN SUN
Surrounding Four-Space is Green in colour.

RED SUN
Surrounding Four-Space is Red in colour.

TERRAN PLANET
Surrounding Four-Space is Cyan in colour.

ROCKY PLANET
Surrounding Four-Space is Brown in colour.

BLUE STAR
Surrounding Four-Space is Dark-Blue in colour.

GAS GIANT
Surrounding Four-Space is Magenta in colour.
Run through a Gas giant for approx. 1000 lbs of fuel.

THE HOLOTANK
Also known as The Cube. A strategic display of the Spiral Arm of the galaxy yo
occupy ie. a form of 3D map.

Click the boxes around the edge of the Cube for the following functions:

Roll     :  Top left
Magnify  :  Left
Yaw      :  Bottom left
Pitch    :  Bottom right
Close    :  Top right

All functions except Close are blue in colour, representing one direction of
operation, and orange the other. A single-click of the left mouse button while
pointing at the respective icon changes it's colour and reverses the direction
of operation. Depress and hold down the left mouse button to perform the
operation.
When the contents of the Cube are magnified, you may still wish to view your
immediate surroundings. Point to the coloured bars at the edges of the cube
and press and hold down the left-hand mouse button. You can now slide the bar
held and view the surrounding star field.

STAR SYSTEMS

GREEN
Terran occupied

RED
Outie occupied

YELLOW
Unknown or Unoccupied

CYAN BLIP (Top left of Star)
Singularity & Black Hole present

SYSTEM DATA
Call up information on a system by pointing to one in the cube and double-
clicking the left mouse button.

SHOW SYSTEM
A single click while pointing here calls up further information about the
system.

FLEET DATA FORM
Point to either a Terran or Outie fleet to call up this form.

FLAGSHIP
Transfer direct control to the selected scoutcraft by single-clicking on the
'Flagship' icon. The scoutcraft then becomes the Flagship, with you as Flag
admiral.
A single-click on the left mouse button while pointing here reveals any other
fleets at this location - either Terran or Outie.

Four colours of marker are used for reference. The first star selected is
highlighted with a red marker - choose a second, different star and it's given
a green marker. Select a third star and an amber marker is displayed. Should a
fourth star be selected, then the (now) amber marked on the first star
disappears, and the priorities of the other two markers change accordingly.
A cyan marker shows your home system, while a flashing marker shows that the
Outie home base has been discovered.

CONTROL PANEL
The two pairs of coloured buttons to the left of this panel correspond to the
colours of the markers in the cube. Point to the desired colour of buttons and
double-click the left mouse button to view the names of the selected stars and
the distance between them.

STATUS
Double-click the left mouse button while pointing here for information
concerning the percentage and Tech level of Terran and Outie occupation, along
with the number of remaining scoutcraft.

ORDERS
Double-click the left mouse button while pointing here to call up the order
form and send orders to StarCom.

CARRIAGE RETURN
Send a completed order to StarCom by pointing to this icon and single-clicking
the left mouse button. Recognition of the message being sent is displayed in
the window at the bottom of the scrren.

DELETE
Point here and single-click the left mouse button to remove the last word
selected.

PROBE
Order StarCom to send a small Probe craft to check for Outie occupation in a
sector. Single-click the left mouse button with the pointer on 'Probe' to call
up the 27 sector names. Now point to the desired system and single-click the
left mouse button to select it. Don't forget to select Carriage Return to send
the order.

EXPLORE
Select as above, but orders StarCom to send a Scoutcraft (which gives more
detailed information than the probe) to the designated sector.

MOVE
Orders StarCom to move a Scoutcraft to a newly selected sector and act on
further orders when it gets there. With MOVE selected, the scoutcraft is then
directed by using the three buttons either side of the form which are coloured
red, amber and green to correspond with the previously positioned markers in
the cube. Point to the desired colour of box and single-click the left mouse
button to select the destination. Six further actions are now displayed -
point to the one desired and single-click the left mouse button to select it.

COLONISE
Colonise any Terran planet in the selected system.

FORM HOLE
Some stars do not have Black Holes, which are needed for Faster-than-light
travel. A complete move: Form Hole orders a Scoutcraft to travel at sub-light
speeds to designated star and create a singularity. Unfortunately, sub-light
travel takes years of real-time.

TERRAFORM
Creates a Terran planet in the designated system.

SKIRMISH
Orders attacks on Outie craft at the selected location. Fortunately scoutcraft
have the sense to run away when threatened with total destruction.

CONQUER
Similar in effect to skirmish, only the scoutcraft attempt to return the syste
to an unoccupied state, or die trying.

CONVOY
The only action which requires that at least two stars are selected in the
Cube beforehand. The convoy command orders StarCom to send a scoutcraft to
collect colonists from the first named star and transfer them to the second,
in order to colonise, skirmish etc.

NB! A colonisation as a result of a convoy order results in a higher Tech leve
than as a result of a straightforward Move: Colonise.

COMMUNICATION
All radio communication is limited to travelling at the speed of light, so the
only practical means of passing information is via multiple collapsar jumps.
Small, missile-like craft called jump sonds are programmed to perform a series
of Collapsar jumps, broadcasting messages in specified systems for reception
by any colonies or spacecraft present. But even faster than light communicatio
takes time, which means that it is possible for the data displayed in the Holo
Tank to be out-of-date. Your ship-board computer attempts to extrapolate
information held in the Holo Tank, but even so, you may find that seemingly
safe missions turn out to be a little less safe than they look.

THE OUTIES
Outie technology, particularly in the fields of gravitic engineering and
travel, isn't as advanced as humanity - for example: they don't possess the
Warper. It takes the Outies considerably longer then you to engineer their
systems to suit them.
On entering a new system, the Outies first build a deep space platform from
which further activities within the system take place. They then set about
turning the system's sun into a black hole. This entire process takes in
excess of a year depending on the stellar type with which they deal.

COMBAT ORIENTED LANGUAGE
COL is an icon-driven programming language used to determine the behaviour
of drones. It takes time to master, but it isn't too difficult to learn.

PROGRAMMING DRONES
Having selected the programming icon with a double-click of the left mouse
button, insert your game save disc and press any key.
Four drone control programs are supplied as standard - FlyFree, Interdict,
Local and KamiKaze. Studying them will gave you an idea of how a DCP works.
To call up a DCP into the program window, simply point to the relevant slot,
(except the red one) in the storage window and double-click the left mouse
button.

STORAGE WINDOW
Displays a directory of your save game disc and is used to load and save.

PROGRAM WINDOW
This is where programs are created.

ICON WINDOW
All command icons are stored here.

DCP
Transfer the program shown in the red slot in the storage window to the drone
number displayed to the right. Move the program window around the DCP to view
it. Alternatively, use the cursor keys.

CLR
Clear the program window of the DCP to allow input of the new program.

CREATING A PROGRAM
A DCP is constructed via two windows: Icon and Program. The icons in the lower
window are COL's fundamental commands - by picking them up and placing them
in the program window, a program is created. An icon is picked up by pointing
to it and pressing and holding down the left mouse button.
As icons are added to the program window, they are connected to the previous
icons by a green line to signify the course of program control.
However, when an icon is placed on a previously existing line and the new icon
is inserted on that line, dragging conditional icons (eg. IF) sets up the
course of program control if the condition is fulfilled. Single-clicking the
left mouse button, and holding down the right mouse button while pointing to
an icon on the program window allows you to remove and delete that icon from
the window. A double-click on the left mouse button while pointing to an icon
allows you to set it's parameters. Point to either pair of arrows to the right
of the parameters and single-click the left mouse button to cycle through them

NB! Although up to four DCP's may be held in the ship-board computer's memory,
only one may be used at any time for each drone.

ICONS
There are 14 commands in the form of icons. A green spot in the top-right
corner of an icon shows that it has variable parameters.

ORBIT
ORBIT <object> <distance>

The drone orbits an object at the chosen radius.

IF
IF <condition parameter> <response>

The drone acts accordingly if an event occurs.

FIRE
FIRE

Having locked onto an object, the drone fires at it.

HOLD
HOLD <position>

Holds the position [x,y] relative to the lock.

APPROACH
APPROACH <object>

Approach a craft, planetary or stellar body or the subject of a Lock.
Whatever the object, the Approach is relative to MODE.

LOCK
LOCK <object>

Lock onto an alien, a planetary or stellar body, or a piece of equipment.

FLEE
FLEE <object>

Order the drone to flee from a craft, planetary or stellar object or the
subject of a LOCK.

MODE
MODE <variable>

Determine the flight mode as used by APPROACH. The flight patterns are:

LINE      -  The standard mode of lfight
RT ANGLE  -  Forces the drone to move at right angles to the course set by
             APPROACH.
REVERSE   -  Reverses the drones course.

DO
DO <number>

Denotes the beginning of a loop.

ENDDO
ENDDO <loop end>

Denotes the end of a loop.

EXIT
EXIT

Exit a loop.

NOP
NOP

Stands for NO oPeration, used to waste time.

GOTO
GOTO

Go to a section of DCP. To determine the destination, simply point to the GOTO
icon and click and hold down the left mouse button to move the blue line
around the DCP. When the blue line touches the desired position in the DCP,
release the left mouse button.

LAND
LAND <object>

Land on a stellar or planetary body.
