                                IMMORTAL

Typed in by XANADU of THE SILENTS UK. Edited by PARASITE.


The morning sun heats the jagged peaks as you follow the forgotten road down
to the valley floor. The bleached ruins of great columned temples and towering
citadels rise from the grassy plain like the bones of some colossal beast.
This was the ancient city of Erinoch, destroyed by the dragons fire over 1000
years ago. Mordamir spoke often of this city and the Labyrinth below.....

Mordamir. You think back to the days when you were young and eager to learn
the spells of sorrcery. The old wizard Mordamir took you in and patiently
taught you the arts of magic. he taught you how to read the runes and unleash
their power. the power of charms and fire. He showed you the strength of steel
and taught you how to use your wizards cunning. Mordamir was your master, your
mentor. He was your guard down the treacherous path of wizardry. He was your
friend.

Many Years have passed sine you last saw the old man. You assumed he was dead
- that is until a few nights ago, when he came to you in a dream. You woke
with the uneasy feeling that Mordamir still lived - trapped in a bottomless
cavern. And so you set out to unravel the secrets of the Immortal.

KEY COMMANDS
Music on/off    ctrl S
Restart         ctrl R

GAME CONTROLS
You begin in the antechamber that leads to level 1

Along the top of the playing area is a vitality meter, run out & your dead

Use joystick to move in the 8 directions   \ | /
                                         -       -
                                           / | \
COMBAT
When a monster attacks you must fight to the death. The best strategy is to
parry when your opponet is about to strike, and attack when he's leaving
himself open.

ATTACKING JAB   push forward
SLASH           pull back then push forward
PARRYING        to parry move the stick left & right. Remember if the wizard
                facing you, the movements are reversed.

Lean away from the monsters swing to parry his blow. Your opponent has to pull
back his weapon before he can swing. When you see him pull back, lean in the
direction his swing will travel.

USING ITEMS IN YOU PACK
You carry a pack where you keep the valuable items you find. To Look at the
items press space bar. To use an item from you pack, move the cursor to the
item and press the joystick button. To exit back to the action highlight a
blank square and press fire.

Most items are activated by selecting them. A few, however, require additional
commands:

        BLINK SPELL - once you've selected the blink spell press the joystick
        button to blink.

        CARPET - select the carpet to ride through the air select it again to
        deactivate.

        FIREBALL SPELL (scroll with '3 shots' written under it) - once you've
        selected the fireball spell, press fire to cast a fireball.

        PROTEAN RING - select the protean ring to activate its magic power.
        select again to deactivate. Note: you can't climb ladders while in
        goblin form.

Sometimes using an item consists of setting it on the ground - eg you use the
gem by putting it down. Be carefull to pick up again an item if you set it
down in the wrong place or you'll not find it in your pack later on.

NOTES ON USING ITEMS
Each kind of item has a specific use - spores can only be planted in dirt,
while the Troll Ritual Knife can only be thrown. You can't control how an item
is used, just when and where. Most items are only in a particular place - one
of the most challenging parts of the game is figuring out which item the
situation  demands.
When you first get an item, there's no way to know what it does until you try
it. You can guess an items general use - you wear rings drink potions etc -
but you can't know an items magical properties until you try it.

PAUSING THE GAME
If you need to pause the game press space to bring up your pack, to resume
move cursor onto a black square and press fire.

GETTING OUT OF PIT TRAPS
There are deadly pit traps in the Labyrinth - if you are not careful you may
find yourself hanging by your staff over rows of iron spikes. There is a way
out before your staff breaks under weight.
To swing out, gently rock your joystick back and forward at an even pace.

INCREASE VITALITY BY SLEEPING
Piles of straw provide comfortable, SAFE! places to rest and regain Vitality.
To sleep, move onto the straw and just stand there. After a moment, you'll lie
down and go to sleep. PAY CLOSE ATTENTION TO YOUR DREAMS!

CLIMBING UP AND DOWN LADDERS
To climb up or down a ladder, move up to it and you'll automatically climb or
descend. Be careful going down ladders - move to the side of the opening with
the ladder or you'll fall to your death.

COMPLETING A LEVEL OF THE LABYRINTH
Whenever you complete a level, you'll get a certificate. WRITE DOWN YOUR
CERTIFICATES AND KEEP THE IN A SAFE PLACE. If you quit playing The Immortal,
you'll need the certificate later so you can start on the level you left off.
Once you've written down the certificate, press fire to begin the next level
or quit and resume the game at will.
When descending to the next level items not needed are automatically removed.

THATS BASICALLY IT -  The rest of the manual is concerned with stories about
the creatures that inhabit the Labyrinth etc if you want to read that buy the
game....
