                                INTERFERON II

Typed in by SHRIMP (THE AUTHOR) of MAGNETIC FIELDS. Edited by PARASITE.


        This virus killer is a lot more than just an update on the old
interferon with a completely new CLI master program,a reset activated virus
killer and last but not least, an even powerfuller bootblock protector.
(IMPORTANT NOTE:- You must use the CLI RUN command to load the master
program in order for it to work properly.)
        Once in the CLI master program you will be asked whether you want
the AmigaDOS and Interferon II window titles updated or just the Interferon
II window titles updated , the program will then automatically check the
reset vectors and then the bootblock of the disk and warn you accordingly.
        The program will then make itself transparent to any other program
running but the vectors are continuously checked about every frame or so.
        If you press both of the mousebuttons together at the same time
then you will be confronted by a command window with a prompt asking you to
enter a command.Here is a quick runover of the commands:-

        IINT - This command installs the new Interferon II bootblock
protector on the disk in the internal drive.

        IDOS - This command installs a normal AmigaDOS v1.2/v1.3 bootblock
on the disk in the internal drive.

        CHBB - This command checks the bootblock of the disk in the
internal drive and tells you whether it is a standard bootblock or not.

        RDBB - This command reads the bootblock of the disk in the internal
drive into the bootblock buffer for copying bootblocks etc.

        WTBB - This command writes the contents of the bootblock buffer
onto the bootblock of the disk in the internal drive.

        BUFF - This command displays the contents of the bootblock buffer
in ASCII form in the command window.

        INFO - This command gives some brief information about Interferon II.

        HELP - This command displays a quick summary of the available
commands.

        EXIT - This command exits from command mode and back to transparent
mode.(NOTE:- This does not exit from the virus killer.)

        QUIT - This command exits from Interferon II if you confirm that
you want to quit at the confirmation check.

        Thats about all the stuff I can write about this program except
that when the reset virus killer finds a virus the screen goes red for a
few seconds and then the computer resets , otherwise the screen will go
green for a few seconds and the normal boot procedure will resume.
