                                NUCLEUS

Typed in by EXECUTIONER of PROPHECY. Edited by PARASITE.


Time is running out...... your mission, to destroy the electric power core of
the synthetic planet Cetorium, which supplies all its power needs. Without
their supply of energy the aliens which have been raging war over us have been
defeated.

The only way to reach the NUCLEUS of the planet is to take on the entire
planet's defence system, which no man has seen before or lived long enough to
describe.

CONTROLS:
Joystick port 2

UP:                 Fly up.
DOWN:               Fly down.
LEFT/RIGHT:         Fly left or right.
FIRE-BUTTON:        Fire guns and weapons.
MOUSE-BUTTON:       Press left button to pause,
                    press again to resume play.

GAMEPLAY:
If it moves shoot it! - If it doesn't move shoot it anyway!

Shoot as many aliens as possible whilst trying to avoid hitting any aliens
or their missiles with your ship.

Occasionally a bonus sphere will appear. Try to collide with it to gain a
power-up.

The bonus spheres are as follows:

(O) Electric orb weapon.                (S) Speed-up.
(P) Plasma cannon weapon.               ("HEART") Extra ship.
(E) Top or bottom electro gun.          ("SKULL") Death.
(T) Top or bottom electro gun.

If you pick up a "Death" sphere, you will lose a life and all your weapons
etc.

At the end of each level there is a large guardian to destroy, before you
can progress to the next level. Obviously the more weapons you have collected,
the easier it will be to destroy these guardians.

STATUS AND SCORING:
At the bottom of the screen is the player's status bar. This shows from left
to right; The score, Level and ships remaining.

1) THE SCORE
This will increase when shooting aliens etc.

A score bonus will be given at the end of each level when the guardian is
destroyed.

2) LEVEL INDICATOR
This displays the level you are currently on.

3) SHIPS INDICATOR
This displays the number of ships that remain.

GAME END:
The game ends for the following reasons:

1) You have lost all your ships.

2) You have completed the game by destroying the "NUCLEUS"
