                         SWORDS OF THE TWYLYTE


Typed in by ???. Edited by PARASITE.


Swords of Twilight offers you an extraordinary opportunity:  freedom of
action in a world of wonder and sense.  Eat, sleep, explore, learn.  Meeting
interesting people. Talk, fight.  Just like real life - with magic.  If you
like, bring a friend or two, and live the life of a knight or magician on a
quest to recover the Sword of Shambala.  Gossip with dragons, cast a spell
with word an gesture, swing your sword at an armored foe, or stalk the musty
corridors of ruined tombs where skeletons stir at night.  Short of first-
degree burns, this is a close as you can get to a dragon's breath or a
wizard's fireball.

Swords of Twilight is fairly intuitive and largely self-prompting.  Learning
it can be done in 5 ways.

*  Read the manual.  (We know it's against your principles, but give it a
   try.)

If you're in a hurry, at least read THE DISKS AND QUICK START TO SWORDS OF
TWILIGHT.

*  Trial and eror is a reasonable way to familiarize yourself with movement
   and the menus.  Nothing dire will happen  (Honestly)

*  Observe the conduct of your computer-controlled comrades;  although they
   lack an overall sense of purpose or direction (thats up to you) they do
   know how to conduct themselves in an encounter with friend or foe.  If you
   do not speak up, they will.

*  Ask anyone you meet everything the menus allow, and pay attention to the
   answers, which may depend on the type, experience, and locatation of the
   speaker.   Even commonplace sayings are true and relevant.

*  Use your imagination. Put yourself in an ancient world where magic works
   or used to. What would you do? How would you act? Would someone object to
   theft or murder.  Could you go a week without food?  Or sleep?  When in
   doubt, act naturally.  The world you experience, however fantasitic,
   reflect our own.

TABLE OF CONTENTS.

CAUTIONS                  1
THE DISKS                 1
LOADING INS.              2
GAME COMMANDS             4
QUICK START TO S.T.       6
THE SCREEN                8
GETTING STARTED           9
CONTROLLING YOUR CHAR.   10
MENUS AND OPTIONS        12
MONITORING YOUR CHAR.    12
TRAVEL                   19
DONJONS                  20
MAGIC                    22
CAST OF CHARACTERS       28
COMPUTER CONTROLLED CHAR 31

CAUTIONS
This manual is written for Amiga computers.  If you're using anything
other than an Amiga, consult the Command Summary Card included in the
package.

To play Sword of Twilight, your Amiga must have at least one floppy drive
and 512k of RAM  If you're going to play from a hard disk, you'll need
more than 512k of memory.  Your machine must be operting iwth Kickstart
1.2 or higher.  The game supports up to two joysticks.

Dont' throw away the box - you'll need those crests on the inside front
cover. <STARR-= THOSE CRESTS WILL BE IN THE FINAL DOX!>

THE DISKS
Inside the package you'll find a program Disk and a Data Disk.  The disks are
not copy protected.  Unless you install the game on a hard disk, yo also
need a blank floppy disk.  Before you begin play, YOU MUST MAKE A COPY OF
THE DATA DISK.  It'll auto. be named "copy of Sword data Disk"
Leave it that way.

When playing, use only your copy, no the original.  The copy will be updated
every time you "save the game. (See saving the game, page 5); if you ever go
to start a new game, make another copy of the original data disk.  If you
don't know how to make a copy, read the instructions below that pertain to
your particular system.

Becuase Swords of Twilight uses a custom font, you must boot (or reboot) with
the Swords of Twilight Program Disk.  That is, when the computer asks for a
Workbench disk, insert the program disk.  Double click on the disk icon when
the window opens up, double-click on the sword icon to begin the game.  You
can install the game on a hard disk by folliowing the instructions below.

In these instructions, left click means click (quicking press and release
(the left mouse button ;  double click mean click a mouse button twice in
a row)

GAME COMMANDS
Characater Actions
Use the cursor keys or the joystick to move your character.  All other
actions requre the "trigger key" the right ALT of AMIGA key or the joystick
button.  Press and release the trigger key to get into the menu of further
options what allow you to:

*  Shift your attitude or manner
*  Take items (pick up or drop items, ready or unready
   equipment, eat food or drink a potion)
*  Talk to people (Ask for information and aid, Offer answers,
   give and receive gifts)
*  Move (exit the menu and move or fight)

See Menus and other options for more details.  To fight, select SHIFT and
change your attitude to HOSTILE (If you aren't already)  Next, select MOVE to
exit the menu.  When your character is next to a foe, press the trigger key,
and without releasing it, use the cursor keys or push the joystick in the
direction you wish to strike.

PAUSING THE GAME.
Press ESC to pause the game any time you're not on the Rainbow Road.  To
resume play, press the spacebar.  You can also pause the game by holding
down the left ALT or AMIGA key.  Use this if you wish to write down a message
on the screen.  The game resumes as soon as you release the key.

QUITTING THE GAME.
To quit, remove the disk(s) from the drive(s) turn off your computer, or
reboot with a different disk.

REGROUPING.
During the game, you can shift control of a character from the computer to a
human player or vice versa.  If a friend arrives or leaves, you can "regroup"
Hold down the left ALT or AMIGA key, and press R.  Next, use the left/right
cursor keys and the right ALT or AMIGA key to specify how each char-
acter in your party will be controlled.

Note:  your can't regroup during an encounter or on the Rainbow Road.

SAVING THE GAME.
The standard way of ending a game session is to return home, see the Queen,
and Part.  At that point you have two options:  Save or Regroup.  To save the
game and preserve your progress up to that point, choose Save.   If you just
wantto try new character, choose Regroup.  (Note that this does not have
the same effect as left ALT-R)  If you save the game, you can then continue
playing with the same character, choose new ones, or quit playing.

If you're about to enter a particularly forebidding dungeon, or you don't have
time to make it back to Glorianaa's castle, press F10 to save the game.  You
must be outdoors but not in an encounter.  You can then continue playing or
quit.  When you quit and later restart the game, you'll be exactly where you
left off.  With this option, you cannot changed the character in or the
locations of you group.

QUICK START OF SWORD OF TWILIGHT.

FORM A PARTY
From a cast of 31, pick three characters to begin your quiest.  Using the
keyboard and one or two jouysticks as input devices, up to three people can
play simultaneously, each controllling one character  The computer will
direct any of your comrades not controlled by a human.  ( You can't use a
mouse, but you can leave it connected if the computer is running the cor-
respoding character.)

Your initial choice of characters is not crucial.  All of them are reasonably
equipeed, and a mixture of ranks works best.   For starters, avoid the slow
(e..g. Tessalon) and the stubborm (Bercilak or Ursin) In fact, let the mages
stay home for now, and begin with Imric, Araianaa, and Lochinvar, pe-
hapes, or Valor, Bronwen, and Gardol.  (See Cast of Characters for more in-
formation.)

A DYNAMIC WORLD
Swords of Twilight is dynamic.  Things change.  Reputatin spreads.
Circumatances vary.  Castles fall to ruin; ruins can be rebuilt.  Treasure
taken away is gone.  A valuable object left behind may be moved and put
away.

ENCOUNTERS.
Every individual in unique.  All ogres are ogrish, but some are stronger or
stupider than others.  Even commoners differ in skill and experience.  There
is no direct way to tell the rank of those you meet.  Someone with several
followers will tend to be higher-ranking than a lone individual. A more
experienced person knows more and is harder to impress.

Encounters are fluid.  Everyone's behavious affect everyone else's.  Friendly
folk naturally move physically closer to one another. People whisper
secrets they won't shout across the room.  If you get too close for comfrot,
however, people will withdraw or get angry.  Pressuring them can work-
but not for long.

REPUTATION.
People remeber how you treat them , and gossip spread quickly.  If you
roam through a town slaying everyone you meet, you'll ensure a hostile
reception there.  And you'll be unwelcome elsewhere in the land.  Try to
part on a positive role with those you met Freindly or Polite. Leaving
people Hostile or dead will cause you trouble alter and, to some degree,
will even harm the reputation of the Queen's other envoys.

There are exceptions.  Slaying ghols, ogres, or Shadowlard's minions
may earn you a hostile gretting in a Shadowlord's cidatel but will en-
hance your reputation elsewhere.  However, nobody cares what you do in
a ruin - except th people  who live ther.  Lifewise, the repution you
earn in one world has little effect on your repution in another.

NIGHT AND SHADOW
The gloom of night is real.  Those who prowl the darkness are often
dangerous, and even decent folk are more apprehenseive and less friednly
in the dead of night.

Time is against you. As Shadow falls across the worlds, fear breeds distrust;
suspicion leads to hate.  Emboldnened ghouls strike at human habitiation;
sacked setllments become ruins:  home of the lost, the desperate, and
those who prey on them.  In a ruin, no guards man their posts' no one has
authority or influence; none can help or heal.  Slaughter  and theft on your
part only hasten the decline.  To restore order and allow rebuilding, you
must act quickly.
