
                                 SKID ROW

                                 presents

                     MIGHT AND MAGIC III: ISLES OF TERRA
                       Reference Card: Commodore Amiga

Installation Instructions

   Important.  Before installing Might and Magic III it is highly
recommended that you make backup copies of the program disks, especially
if you will be playing on a floppy-based system.  Make the copies NOW!

   Hard Drive Requirements.  To play Might and Magic III on a hard drive
system, you will need at least one megabyte of RAM and about five megabytes
of free disk space.

   Hard Drive Installation.  Insert disk MM3-MAIN in DF0:, open its disk
icon, then double-click on INSTALL-HARDDRIVE to run the installation
program.  You will be asked to enter a partition name to install to (DH0:,
DH1:, etc...)  Insert the disks as prompted by the system.  After all of
the files have been copied and the program completes, a number of Assign
statements must be executed before you play.  The necessary assigns will
be in a file called MM3-Assigns in the MM3 drawer.  You can copy this
script into your Startup-Sequence, or simply execute it each time you
play the game.

   Playing from a Hard Drive.  From Workbench, open the MM3 drawer.  To
watch the introduction sequence, double-click on the MM3-INTRO icon.  To
play Might and Magic III, double-click on the Might&MagicIII icon.  
(Note: The programs will attempt to close the Workbench screen to ensure
it will have enough memory to run.  It is important on one megabyte 
systems especially that the Workbench be 'closeable`.  Make sure that no
other programs are running from Workbench, and that no shell or CLI
windows are open.)

   Floppy Drive Requirements.  To play Might and Magic III on a floppy-
based system, you will need at least one megabyte of RAM, an external
floppy drive and two blank diskettes.  If you have more than one megabyte
of RAM, you may connect more than one external drive, if desired.  
Otherwise, a one megabyte system should only have one external drive
connected to run MM3.

   Floppy Drive Installation.  First, boot your system as normal with
your Workbench disk in DF0:.  Format the two blank disks and rename
them MM3-GAMES and MM3-PLAY, respectively, using rename from the
Workbench or Relabel from the CLI.  Insert disk MM3-MAIN in the external
drive and open its icon and double-click on the INSTALL-FLOPPY icon.
The INSTALL-FLOPPY program will copy the required fonts to your FONTS:
directory on the Workbench disk and set up the MM3-PLAY and MM3-GAMES
disks (Note: You will need about 4K of free disk space on your Workbench
disk).  The system will prompt you to insert the disks as needed; you
should keep MM3-MAIN in the external drive for the duration of the
installation process, swapping the Workbench, MM3_GAMES and MM3-PLAY
disks in the internal drive (it's faster).

   Playing from Floppies.  Now you will have two disks:  MM3-PLAY contains
the executable program and support files, MM3-GAMES is the saved games 
disk.  Each MM3-GAMES disk will only hold three saved games.  Additional
saved games disks can be created by formatting a blank disk, renaming it
MM3-GAMES and running the MAKE-GAMES program on the MM3-MAIN disk.  (Note:
Be careful not to attempt saving more than three games per MM3-GAMES disk).

   To watch the introduction sequence, replace the Workbench disk in DF0:
and place disk MM3-04 in the external drive.  Open MM3-04's disk icon
and double-click on the MM3-INTRO icon.

   To run Might and Magic III, replace the Workbench disk in DF0: and place
disk MM3-PLAY in the external drive, where it should remain for the 
duration of game play.  Open MM3-PLAY's disk icon ad double-click on the
Might&MagicIII icon.  The program will prompt you to swap disks in DF0:
as necessary during game play.

Getting Started 

After the main screen you will have the option of starting a new game or 
loading a saved game.  Press S or click on "Start a New Game" to start a
new game.  You will begin your adventure in the center of the first town 
with a party of six fully-equipped characters.  You can immediately start
playing or go to the Inn to create your own party of characters.

Press L or click on "Load a Saved Game" to load a saved game.  A window 
will appear listing the names of all your saved games and the highest 
character level in the party.  Select the game you wish to load.

Control Panel

To bring up the Control Panel window, press the Tab key or click or click
on the large gem at the bottom center of the Display Window.  The name of 
the current game is displayed at the bottom of the Control Panel window. 
The available options are listed below.

E - ON     Effects.  Turns the sound effects on and off.
M - OFF    Music.  Turns the music on and off.
D - 5      Delay.  Allows you to set the text display delay from 0 to 9.
L - LOAD   Load.  Allows you to load a previously saved game.
S - SAVE   Save.  Allows you to save the current game in its present 
           location.  The game is automatically saved when the party enters 
           an Inn.
Q - DOS    Quit.  Quits Might and Magic III and exits to DOS.
W - HELP   Help.  Returns the party to Fountain Head and removes 1 
           experience level from each character.  (No penalty for 1st level 
           characters.)

Navigating the Windows

There are four ways of selecting options in the various windows in Might 
and Magic III.

*     Click the mouse pointer on the icon of the option you desire.
*     If there is a letter in the option name that is a different color
      than the rest of the word (usually the first letter), type that 
      letter from the keyboard.
*     If there is a highlight that surrounds the option's icon, press
      Enter to select that option.  Use the arrow keys to move the
      highlight to other options.
*     If there is a number to the left of an option or item, press that 
      number on the keyboard, or click the mouse pointer on the item's 
      name.

For options requiring a Yes/No answer, press Y for yes, N for no, or click 
on the icon.

              Y = Thumbs Up Icon      N = Thumbs Down Icon

Most windows can be exited by pressing the Escape key.

Statistic values change color depending on their current value relative to 
their maximum value.  Character gems and monster names change color 
relative to their current number of hit points compared to their normal 
maximum number.  The five colors and their meanings are: Gray - Above 
maximum, Green - Maximum (normal), Yellow - Below maximum, Red - Below 25% 
of maximum, Blue - 0 or less.

Adventuring Mode 

To move through the world of Might and Magic III, use the arrow keys or the 
mouse pointer in the Display Window.  The Up and Down arrow keys move the 
party forward and backward, and the Left and Right arrow keys turn the 
party left and right.  Holding down the Control key while pressing the Left 
or Right key side-steps the party without turning.  Wait (pass) by pressing 
the Space Bar.  This allows time to pass and monsters to advance.  Time 
does not pass when turning left or right.

Nine options appear in the Options Window of the Game Screen:

S  Shoot.             Party members with equipped missile weapons fire them 
                      straight ahead, provided there are no obstacles.  
                      Pressing the right mouse button while adventuring 
                      will also select "Shoot".  
C  Cast.              Displays the Cast Spell window.  All spell casters 
                      have a spell ready.  To cast the readied spell select 
                      Cast again.  To change the readied spell select New.  
                      A list of all spells known by the selected character 
                      will appear.  To the right of each spell is its cost 
                      in spell points and gems (i.e. 12/2 means 12 spell
                      points and 2 gems).  Select the desired spell and 
                      press Enter.  The spell is now ready to be cast.
R  Rest.              Restores the party's hit points and spell points, 
                      provided there is at least one food for every member 
                      of the party.  From left to right, only the number of 
                      party members equal to the number of party food will 
                      be restored.  Some conditions worsen with rest and 
                      can cause a character to die.  Use caution when 
                      resting.  Most monsters love to devour sleeping 
                      adventurers.
B  Bash.              Using the combined might of the first two conscious 
                      party members, attempts to knock down locked doors, 
                      grates, and thin walls that hide secret passages.
D  Dismiss.           Returns any party member to the Inn where that 
                      character appears on the roster.  At least one 
                      character must always remain in the party.
V - View Quests.      Displays the Current Quest window and Corak's notes 
                      on the surrounding area.
M - Automap.          Displays the map of the current area.  Only active if 
                      at least one character has the skill Cartography.
I - Information.      Displays the Game Information Window, listing the day 
                      of year, time of day, year and day of week.  This 
                      window also lists any spells that are currently 
                      active, such as Light.
Q - Quick Reference.  Displays the Quick Reference Chart, listing the 
                      party's vital statistics, gold, gems and food.

Important Places

Scattered across the isles, there are important places to visit that can be 
very helpful in character development:

* Inns              Create, store, add and delete characters, acquire 
                    hirelings.
* Temples           Heal and uncurse characters.
* Blacksmiths       Buy, sell, identify and fix items.
* Training Grounds  Train to increase a character's level.
* Taverns           Buy food, listen for rumors, hear tips.
* Guilds            Learn spells (with membership).
* The Bank          Safely store excess gold and gems (and earn interest).

Combat 

When an opponent occupies the same square as the party, hand to hand combat 
is initiated.  While in combat, movement is limited to turning left or 
right.  You can face up to three opponents in hand to hand combat with 
others waiting in line for their chance at you.  Select which opponent you 
wish to target by pressing 1 , 2, and 3, or clicking the mouse pointer on 
the opponent's name or picture.  The targeted opponent's name will be
surrounded by a box.  Successful hits on an opponent are represented by 
red splatters on the opponent's picture.  The greater the damage done, the 
larger the splat.  Magical weapons and spells may do additional damage 
represented by different splatters.

Nine options appear in the Options Window of the Game Screen:

F - Quick Fight.  Battles the opponent(s) using the current Quick Fight 
    option settings.  Select this icon with the left mouse button to
    rapidly run through the party's attacks.  Pressing the right mouse 
    button while in Combat will also select Quick Fight.

C - Cast.  Same as in adventuring mode.

A - Attack.  Attacks the targeted opponent with whatever weapon the
             character has equipped.

U - Use.  Brings up the Item window, where a character can equip or
          remove items, or use an item's special ability.

R - Run.  If successful, the highlighted party member will run to a safe
          location nearby and rejoin the party after the battle.

B - Block.  The highlighted party member will attempt to block the
            opponent's next attack.

O - Quick Flight Options.  A party member may be set to attack, cast a
                           readied spell, block, or run when the Quick 
                           Fight option is selected.

I - Information.  Same as adventuring mode.

Q - Quick Reference.  Same as adventuring mode.

Character Creation 

* Enter an Inn, sign the register and select Create.
* Select a character portrait by using the Up and Down arrow keys to scroll 
  through the available faces.  You must delete pre-rolled characters in 
  order to use their faces.
* Roll new statistic values by pressing the R key or clicking the mouse on 
  the icon.
* Statistics can be exchanged as many times as you wish.  Select a 
  statistic (such as Might).  Next select the statistic you would like to 
  exchange with (such as Luck).  The value that was Might is now Luck and 
  vice versa.
* When you are satisfied with the statistics, select a Character Class by 
  using the Left and Right arrow keys to move the pointer up and down the 
  list and pressing Enter.
* Select an Alignment by using the Left and Right arrow keys to move the 
  pointer up and down the list and pressing Enter.
* Select Create and give your character a name.
* The character has been added to the roster of the Inn and can be viewed 
  by exiting the Character Creation screen.

View Character 

To view a character's statistics, press F1 - F8 or click on the character's 
portrait.  While in View Character, Cast Spell and Item windows, press F1 - 
F8 or click on a character's portrait to view the information of another 
party member.

Each of the items in the View Character window has an icon and a number 
which represents the current value of that statistic.  Selecting a 
statistic provides more detailed information.  Generally, the higher the 
numbers, the more powerful the character.

I - Item. Displays the contents of a character's pack.  When equipped, all
          items have a small icon to their left which shows what part of 
          the body they occupy and whether they are one or two handed 
          weapons.  Common sense must be used when equipping items.  Use 
          the Up and Down arrow keys to scroll through the items list.  
          Weapons and armor must be equipped with the Equip option before 
          their benefits are received.  The Use option allows a character 
          to make use of the special or magical abilities of certain items.  
          The Discard option permanently removes an item from the 
          character's pack.  To give an item to another character select 
          the item, then select the character you wish to give it to.

E - Exchange. Allows two characters to trade positions in the party.  A
              window will appear asking, "Exchange with whom?"  Select the
              character you wish to exchange places with.  Characters
              to the far right of the Character Portrait window are
              less vulnerable.

Character Statistics 

Might         Affects damage inflicted in combat.
Intellect     Affects spell points gained per level. (Sorcerers, Archers, 
              Rangers & Druids)
Personality   Affects spell points gained per level. (Clerics, Paladins,
              Rangers & Druids)
Endurance     Affects hit points gained per level.
Speed         Affects armor class and order of battle in combat.
Accuracy      Affects chances to hit in combat.
Luck          Always helps in mysterious ways.
Age           A characters statistics are affected as his or her age 
              increases.
Level         Relative power of a character.
Armor Class   Defensive ability.
Hit Points    Amount of damage a character can withstand before death.
Spell Points  Total daily capability for casting spells.
Skills        Special abilities acquired while adventuring.
Awards        Record of accomplishments and completed quests.
Experience    A running total of a character's eligibility for training
              and advancement.
Condition     Description of a character's health.

SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW
