                             CUTTHROATS

 IN TOWN

 Cutthroats contains two shipwrecks to explore but the beginning for each is
almost exactly the same. I have noted the differences. When the story actually
starts you have just woken up after a bizarre night to find a note on your
floor. Get up, take the note and read it. You should also wind your watch at
this time or it will stop soon. You have plenty of time to make it to the 
shanty by 8:30. Opening your dresser reveals your room key and passbook as 
well as the Shipwreck book from Helvin. The shipwreck book is in your game 
package so you don't need to carry it around, in fact it's best not to. The 
only thing you need now is your room key. Take it and head for the Shanty. 
Make sure you lock the door behind you.

 THE SHANTY

 The Shanty is located on the east end of the Wharf Road. On your way you will
pass the Weasel. You may want to follow him to see what he's up to but it is 
not necessary. When you get to the Shanty sit down with Johnny Red, order 
breakfast and water, eat and drink, and wait for Johnny to let you know what 
he wants. Say YES you are interested when he asks.

 THE LIGHTHOUSE

 Get up and head back to your room. Get your passbook, you'll need it later 
and it will save time to get it now. Again remember to lock your door. Then go
to the lighthouse and wait for the others. The lighthouse is at the end of the
winding road that starts SW of the Wharf Road.

 ***WARNING*** about the passbook: If McGinty sees you while you are carrying
it, he will follow you and spoil the adventure. AVOID him while you have it.

 Johnny Red will show you one of two items: either a dinner plate or a gold
coin. The dinner plate is from the S.S. Leviathan and the gold coin is from 
the Sao Vera. Johnny will tell you to withdraw $500 and meet him at Point 
Lookout. Your business here is done so head for the bank.

 THE BANK

 The bank is just north of the eastern most segment of the Shore Road. Head
there immediately but keep an eye out for McGinty. If you see him headed 
towards you, get out of his way. When you get to the bank, withdraw $500. 
An examination of your passbook will give you today's date (9/19) necessary 
for figuring out High Tide. Once you have the money, go straight back to your 
room and put away your passbook. Remember to avoid McGinty and lock your door 
behind you. Then head for Point Lookout to meet Johnny.


 POINT LOOKOUT/OUTFITTERS

 When Johnny arrives he will ask to see the money. You'll have to show it to 
him as he's not a trusting soul. He'll ask you if the wreck is more than 200'.
Say NO if for the Leviathan and YES for the Sao Vera. Then follow him to 
Outfitters. McGinty will be at Outfitters when you arrive, if you're not 
carrying your passbook he will leave so just wait him out. If you are carrying
the passbook, you will have to restart or restore to a previous position as 
the adventure is now ruined. Johnny will order most of the supplies and then 
take off. He'll let you know how much you have to contribute. Pay the salesman
the proper amount (GIVE SALESMAN $xxx), and then order your equipment.

 For the Leviathan you will need:
 Compressor (rental)
 Shark Repellent
 Electro Magnet
 C Battery
 Putty
 Flashlight

 For the Sao Vera you will need:
 Dry cell
 Shark repellent
 Flashlight

 You won't need to be on board ship till about 1:30 pm. so....

 SMELLING OUT A RAT

 It is now time to do a little sleuthing (there is a traitor amongst you, but
you have to catch him properly). Head for the Shanty. By this time you'll be
getting thirsty so order some water or a drink while there. Johnny Red, Pete 
the Rat and the Weasel will all be there. Just wait and eventually the Weasel 
will take off. Follow him. He will go to the Ferry landing, meet with McGinty 
and then take off on the Ferry. Don't worry about following the Weasel...
instead follow McGinty to his office. Enter the office and examine the 
envelope on his desk. You can't do anything about it here so leave and go into
the back alley behind McGinty's. There is a window there you can look through.
Wait until McGinty leaves, then open the window and enter the office. Take the
envelope and leave.

 You now have proof that the Weasel is a traitor, but the timing of when you
reveal this is very important. It's now time to head for the boat. If you're
dealing with the S.S. Leviathan you'll need to go to your room first and get
your scuba gear. The gear is in your closet.

 ON BOARD

 The layout for both ships is the same. If you're doing the S.S. Leviathan,
board the Night Wind. If you're doing the Sao Vera, board the Mary Margaret.
Head for the Crew's Quarters and put the envelope under the bunk. You need to
hide this information till the proper time. Then go fore into the Storage 
Locker and wait for the supplies to be delivered.
 On the Night Wind you will find a drill. When the supplies arrive, open the
panel in the drill and put in the C battery. Remember to close the panel. You
will also need to fill your tank with the air compressor.

 On the Mary Margaret you will find a machine that is a location box/metal
detector. The closer it comes to metal the faster it clicks. When the supplies
arrive, open the compartment and put the dry cell in the compartment and close
it.

 Now return to the Crew's Quarters and wait. Johnny Red will come and ask you
for the longitude and latitude. Don't tell him about the Weasel yet.
 The S.S. Leviathan is at Latitude 25, Longitude 25 and the Sao Vera is at
Latitude 40, Longitude 45.

 Now sit down on the bunk and relax. Eventually you will fall asleep and be
woken by Johnny Red when you arrive. Now is the time to reveal the traitor. 
Take the envelope and go find Johnny in the Captain's Cabin. Show the envelope
to Johnny and he'll take care of the rest. Go to the Galley and eat some stew 
(it's good and tasty) and drink some water. You are now ready to prepare for 
the dive.

 S.S. LEVIATHAN

 Head for the Storage Locker and get your gear. This will include:
 Wet Suit
 Flippers
 Electro Magnet
 Mask
 Tank (make sure it's filled)
 Drill
 Putty
 Flashlight
 Shark Repellent

 Head for the aft deck. Put on the wet suit, flippers, tank, and mask. Turn on
your flashlight and dive. Head down. When you see a shark coming towards you
open the repellent. Continue down to the wreck. You'll land on the top deck. 
Go straight down to below decks. Head aft. Open the aft door (make sure the 
magnet is OFF first) and go aft. You'll be in a room with mines. The only one 
you need to worry about is the loose one. Put the magnet on the mine. Turn on 
the magnet. Put the magnet on the deck. This will get the mine out of your way
and you can go up.

 There is a tight squeeze aft, so take off your tank and then go aft and aft
again. This will bring you to a room with a safe. To open the safe, turn on 
the drill and drill the lock then immediately turn off the drill. You'll need 
it later and it doesn't last long.

 Inside the safe you'll find a case with stamps. The case is cracked and water
is getting in but don't try to fix it now. Take the case and go back to the 
room above the mine room. Put your tank back on and go down. Then head fore 
and then up. This will put you in an airlock room and you can fix the case. 
"Turn on the drill" and "drill the crack with the drill." (NOTE: Put both 
these commands on the same line as the drill will run out almost immediately. 
You have no fudge time on this!) The new hole will let the water drain out. 
Then put putty in the

 SAO VERA

 Head for the Storage Locker and get your gear. This will include:
 Deep Diving Suit
 Machine
 Flashlight
 Shark Repellent

 Go to the aft deck. Put on the suit. Connect the air hose (from the 
compressor) to the suit. Turn on the compressor. Turn on the flashlight and 
Dive. Start descending. When you see the shark, open the repellent.

 Keep descending to the wreck. Go down to the next deck from the spot you land
on. Turn on the machine and observe the clicking. Head aft. Take a pike from
this room and head aft. Ignore the cask for now and head aft again. There are
bunks blocking the doorway aft and you'll need to move and secure them. Move 
the bunk with the pike, then put the pike under the bunk. This will hold it up
out of your way and keep it there. Head aft again and then down.

 You are now below decks. Head fore into the room with the squid. The squid 
will not bother you as long as you leave it alone and don't stay in this room 
for more than one turn. Head fore again.

 This room contains an oak chest. Your box should be clicking wildly now. Head
fore again into the room with skeletons. An examination of the skeletons will
reveal a scabbord. The scabbord contains a sword take it. Head fore again. 
This time you'll find a maple chest and the box will be clicking slowly. Push 
the maple chest aft to the room with the oak chest. Push the oak chest port to
the ocean floor, and wait for the orange line. When it swings in, tie it to 
the oak chest and give it a tug. The chest will begin to be hauled up.

 (NOTE: If by some bizarre chance the box clicks rapidly when next to the 
maple chest instead of the oak, then push the maple chest out to be hauled up.)

 You've got the treasure out...now you have to get yourself out. Push the
remaining chest aft and aft again past the squid. Stand on the chest and 
you'll be able to go up to the middle deck. Go fore to the room with the cask.
Push the cask fore to the foremost room. There is a rope tied around the mast.
Stand on the cask and cut the rope with the sword. You'll have to drop the 
sword and possibly the box to be able to climb up the rope.

 Go up and ascend to the ship...a very rich diver!
