

              ENJOY THE GAME

                 DOC'S BY    

         FLYBOY OF MADWAND SOFTWARE


 I BACKGROUND HISTORY
----------------------
   It is now more than three hundreds years since the cataclysm when the wraith of the gods descended upon krynn. With the only direct access portal denied her, the queen of darkness spreads her power across the land by awakening the evil dragons and creating the draconians. Once in control of Krynn, she will be free to force entry to the world. Only the companions of the lance(they are not hero's until they succeed) can stop her final victory. Should they fail the queen of darkness will be free to come through from the abyss into the world and darkness will cover Krynn for all eternity as she and her draconians will control the largest, most evil empire ever created.
   
   The only threat to her awesome power is the possibility of a revival of the worship of the old gods. In the years since the cataclysm, the inhabitants of krynn have lost their belief in the gods. Before opposition to Takhisis can be untied, you must restore faith in the old gods by recovering the disks of Mishakal from the ruins of Xah tsaroth. Use of their knowledge will bring true healing back to krynn and restore faith in the old gods, allowing them to intervene in the fate of their worshipers. More importantly it allows them to confront the queen of darkness directly and restore the balance between good,evil, and neutrality

   This mighty relic is the only hope for krynn and you must aid the companions in their quest to retrieve the disks. Unfortunately, the disks are just not lying in the ruins but are actively guarded by khisanth, an ancient, huge, black dragon, served by the draconians who have enslaved the local aghar(gully dwarves).

A.   THE DRAGONLANCE SAGA
---------------------------
    The world of krynn resulted from players who wanted more dragons. The basic plot which became the basis of the entire dragonlace game universe was put together by the TSR design staff. These concepts were then brought to life by the TRS artists to produce the dragonlance saga. A rich diverse gaming universe with awesome dragons and questing adventures. From this beginning came an entire world and it's history, the place now known to gamers as krynn. Until now occupation  of krynn has been limited to the imagination of the readers of the dragonlance novels and players of the ADVANCED DUNGEONS AND DRAGONS role playing game. However things have changed.
    The hero's of lance game gives you the chance to take part in the quest of the companions of lance as they begin their fight to save krynn from domination by takhisis, the queen of darkness.m Find yourself in the thick of the action as you control the characters in their life-in-death struggle against the forces of evil. Can you retrieve the disks of Mishakal from the lair of khisanth, deep in the ruins of xah tsaroth?. Before you can even reach the lair, the companions must defeat draconian hordes in hand-to-hand combat and deal with powerful magic,monstrous spiders,skeletal undead, and many more terrors that lurk amidst the rubal of a once beautiful city.
    For those familiar with AD&D game, this is not a role playing game but an action game. The computer is made to keep all the usual "to hit","damage inflicted","saving throw,"ect..." dice rolls behind the scenes so that you can concentrate on the action on screen. You won't see the numbers, allowing you to concentrate on what is actually visible-the draconian charging forward waving his sword. Can you see any traps while the detect spell lasts or is that a potion bottle in the corner.

B.  THE ADVANCED DUNGEON AND DRAGONS GAME
------------------------------------------
    Some of you may not have encountered role-playing games before. Although this isn't a RPG, it is based around the concepts of what is probably the most widely played system--The AD&D game from TSR.
    Instead of being a passive reader or observer as in a novel or play, RGP players control one or more characters within the story. You take an active role in determining the course of events within the game, during which the characters(if they survive) will learn and become more experienced, thus equipping them to deal with tougher challenges. The players have an opportunity to interact not only with the game but also with each other. The game is open-ended and, when one scenario has been completed, the characters can continue to another and another....
    A dungeon(or game) master directs each game by controlling the entire action within the game apart from the players and characters. this person is responsible for discribing the characters environment,controlling all the monsters and traps, and dealing with combat resolution, treasure, and anything else that might occur. Many people enjoy being a dungeon master as much as running a character in another persons scenario.
     The hero's of lance game is designed to hide the dice-rolling and table referencing from the player and allow him/her to concentrate on the action as the computer takes on the mechanics of the game. But, of course, it doesn't allow players to interact with each other in the way AD&D game does.
 
II   THE ACTION STARTS
--------------------------
     despite the various encounters with the draconians while approaching Xah-tsaroth, the companions are finally standing within the great temple of mishakal before the statue of the goddess. As goldmoon, carrying the blue crystal staff, approaches the statue, it animates and speaks to you:
"krynn is about to face it's greatest test....you must return the truth and power of the true gods to men. it's time to restore the balance.
     "to gain the power, you shall need the truth of the gods. Far below this temple lie the disks of mishakal:circular plates of platinum that are all you need to call upon my power. You must recover these disks.
     " Your way will not be easy. The disks now lie in the lair of the dragon. Therefore, I charge your staff: if you present it boldly, never wavering, then you shall prevail...
     You will find the hero's ready to start their exploration of the ruins of xah-tsaroth. you must be ready for anything as draconians aren't the worst thing you may meet. Good-luck- the fate of krynn is in your hands.

 A.  PREPARING FOR PLAY
----------------------------
     Before you begin play copy your disks they are not copy-protected in any physical form.
     saving the game--you will need a blank formatted disk save the game by selecting the save game option and follow the screen prompts.

  B. LOADING THE GAME
------------------------------
     Plug in your joystick in port 2. Boot with 1.2 or greater put in disk A and follow the prompts.

III.  PLAYING THE GAME
--------------------------------
     This game has been designed to give you the feel of adventuring in the world of krynn, a strange and dangerous place full of monsters and treasure. There are many things you can do during the course of the game, from movement and fighting to casting magic and collecting potions.
     To enable you to engage in all these things, we have set up methods to control everything as simply as possible. Movement and physical combat are entirely controlled from the joystick, and everything else is dealt with by a mixture of icon and menu selection. 
     These methods have been designed to minimize interference in the flow of the game by never requiring to let go of the joystick during the course of play. While playing simply pressing the space bar will bring up the main menu and pause the game as you make your selection, and then restart when you hit the menus. The easiest way to get to the menus is press the spacebar with the side of your hand as you hold the joystick. The menus can be accessed at any time during the game.
    The two methods of controlling action are:
  1-Joystick(and fire button) for movement, close combat(bow and arrows,spears,ect..). Close combat is possible when a character and monster approach each other within a quarter of the screen width.
  2-Menu selection is for spell choice,character selection,picking objects up,ect.. and you can use it at any time by pressing the space bar to activate the main menu. Use the joystick to select an option which will either give you further choices from a sub-menu or carry out the specified action.

  A  MOVEMENT
---------------------
     All movement is controlled by the joystick, including movement towards or away from the player-into or out of the screen. Moving the joystick in the various directions will move your character accordingly.
(EXAMPLE--If you are walking left at normal speed then pushing the stick into the upper left corner will cause him to move at double speed same as to the right)(The joystick moved toward you or away from you can only be used at certain times) look for the compass reading if you can go north and south.
     The screen always shows the hero moving left or right. On the other hand, the compass is always oriented to maintain the same absolute direction, just as a real compass.
     Pressing the fire button will cause one or two things to happen depending on weather you are moving or stationary:
   1-STATIONARY-pressing and holding the fire button puts the character into one of the two combat modes. The character will enter ranged combat mode(see details below) if the character is more than a quarter of a screen width from a monster. If within this distance , the character will enter close combat mode. You will see the word "COMBAT" displayed below the compass when your character comes within the quarter screen width.
    2-RUNNING- Pressing the fire button while running causes the character to JUMP in the direction of the movement. This allows the character to pass over certain types of obstacles

B.   RANGED COMBAT/DODGE
---------------------------------
     This mode is used for two purposes: dodging and using a ranged weapon(one that fires over a distance such as bows) It can only be used by a stationary character and requires pressing the fire button to begin operating. With the fire button depressed moving the joystick in the appropriate direction will cause your character to preform the indicated action. The character weapon is automatically selected when you move the joystick into a firing position. For the bows and the hoopak, you must first select the use command from the main menu and choose either a pooh or a quiver before the range weapon can be used. The moves are reversed depending on the screen facing of the character. As long as the joystick is held in position, the weapon will continue to fire until it runs out of ammunition or until a monster moves within close combat range. If you push the stick into a firing position and release it, the weapon will only fire once. Fire center lets you shoot parallel to the ground at about shoulder height and is the most likely choice to use when firing at monsters. Fire low and fire High allow you to fire below and above the center line.
    DODGE- Allows the character to take avoiding action from an attack and is also available in close combat.
    All ranged combat selections are cancelled, changing to close combat, if the players character and a monster move within the 1/4 screen trigger distance. At the same time, the characters weapon changes to close combat weapon.

     facing right--  upper left=fire high
                      center   =fire center
                     low        =fire low
                     pull down  =dodge
  P.S. for facing left just reverse the stick movements.

C. CLOSE COMBAT
----------------------
     The computer allows you to enter close combat mode whenever a monster and a character move within one quarter of a screen of each other. You will see the word COMBAT below the compass when you can enter close combat mode. To enter this mode, keep the fire button depressed . This mode stays in force until one of the combatants is dead, they move away from each other until separated by more than a quarter of a screen, or you release the fire button.
     When in close combat, joystick moves change to those explained here and the character automatically uses his or her close combat weapon. In this mode, the player selects the indicated combat moves for close(melee) fighting by moving the joystick in the relevant direction. The terminology used applies to sword fighting, but the physical moves apply equally to whatever weapon the character is using whether sword, staff, axe,ect. 
     Move backwards means that your character keeps facing the current facing and walks backwards. The character will back up(still holding his weapon), moving to the edge of the screen or until reaching an impassable barrier. If this allows the character to move beyond the combat trigger threshold(quarter  screen), movement then reverts to the normal joystick mode.
     Dodge is available and the character behaves the same as in ranged combat with the ability to avoid things.
     You still make selections from the menu if required and the computer will pause the game, making the necessary combat adjustments while any changes and selection are made. The menus allow you to change the lead character.

  facing right----joystick move----result
                  left-----------move backwards
                  upper right    thrust high
                  right          thrust center
                  low right      thrust low
                  down           dodge
P.S. just reverse the movements if facing left

D. SCREEN DISPLAYS
------------------------

     There are two main screen displays used during the course of play:
     1- STANDARD SCREEN- The main section of the screen shows the actual view of the area being explored with a double row of character icons along the right-bottom of the screen, and a compass indicating viewpoint and exits. Next to each character, that characters hit point status is shown in a vertical bar. Pressing the spacebar brings up the second display- The main menu
     2- THE MAIN MENU- the main section is overlaid with a scroll of selections, with the top selection highlighted and the lower selection of the screen continuing to hold the same information. Selection is either by moving the highlight with the joystick or the up/down cursor keys. When required selection has been made, pressing the fire button or the return/enter key will activate the selection. An error message is displayed if you attempt a selection that is not available.
     There is a third type of screen: The animation sequence. Return to the normal game action by pressing the spacebar. Choosing the main menu may also be used as a pause during game play should you require a short break and do not wish to quit the game.

E. MENUS SUB SUB MENUS
-------------------------
    1-HERO SELECT-SHOWING STATUS SCREEN
    The order in which the characters appear on the screen has an effect on play. The top left character is the first in the party, and is the active character. The character immediately to the right of that character is second and so on. The bottom right character is the last one. The icon of the first character will appear on the screen and represents the entire party. Spells can only be cast if the character casting the spell is one of the first four. Characters in the bottom row can not cast any spells. The active character will suffer the most damage in combat, but all of the top 4 characters may suffer some damage. You can change the order of the characters in your party by selecting hero select from the main menu. When you have done this, a white box will appear around the active character. You can use the joystick or the cursor keys to move this box over one of the characters that you want to move to a different position. When the box is on the desired character, press the fire button or hit the return/enter key. You will then get a second white box. Move the white box over the character you wish the first character to switch positions with. Once again hit the return/enter key or press the fire button. The characters will switch positions. If you wish to change the order of of more than one pair of characters, re-select this option for each swap you wish to preform.
    Should goldmoons hit points fall to low level , and she is the active character, riverwand will switch positions with her in order to protect her. Once she is revitalized she can once , she can once again assume the lead.

II. MAGIC USERS/ THE STAFF OF MAGIC SPELLS
----------------------------------------------
    The number in parentheses(brackets) is the number of charges used per spell when Raistlin uses the staff of Magius. This staff holds up to 100 charges. Using scrolls and potions does not take charges. Wands use these charges.
  CHARM-each use takes (1) charge
  SLEEP-uses (1) charge
  Magic Missile-Takes  (1) charge 
  WEB- Entangles an opponent for a limited amount of time  (2) 
  DETECT MAGIC--Shows location of magic items (1) charge
  DEtECT Invisible--Shows location of anything invisible (2)
  FINAL STRIKE--destroys staff and causes intense damage when it explodes provides option to cancel in case selected by mistake(uses all remaining charges)
  BURNING HANDS--Each use takes (1) charge
  EXIT--Return to main menu

3. CLERICAL STAFF SPELLS
-----------------------------
    This selects one of two sub-menus depending on who is using the staff. Only goldmoon can use the staff unless she is incapacitated or dead. In that case riverwand, Caramon, or Sturm can use it at a reduced capacity.
    The number in parentheses(brackets) is the number of charges used per spell when using the clerical staff. This staff holds up to 200 charges, but will absorb energy if attacked by energy-using monsters.
    When you select clerical staff spells, a different sub-menu is displayed depending on whether goldmoon is alive and conscious or one of the other characters is controlling the staff.

3A.   CLERICAL STAFF SPELLS (for goldmoon):
---------------------------------------------
CURE LIGHT WOUNDS- heals minor damage to a character (1)
PROTECTION FROM EVIL- helps you against evil opponents (1)
FINDS TRAPS--indicates the location of a trap (2)
HOLD PERSON--Stops a monster in it's tracks(sometimes) (2)
SPIRITUAL HAMMER--Just like a war hammer but no hands (2)
PRAYER--A little extra help from above (3)
CURE CRITICAL WOUNDS--More powerful healing (5)
RAISE DEAD--Raises dead characters whose bodies are available (5)
DEFLECT DRAGON BREATH--Very useful if you meet a dragon (10)
EXIT-- return to the main menu

3B. CLERICAL STAFF SPELLS FOR RIVERWAND, CARAMON, STURM:
----------------------------------------------------------
CURE LIGHT WOUNDS- heals minor damage to a character (1)
FIND TRAPS--Indicates location of a trap (2)
CURE CRITICAL WOUNDS--More powerful healing (5)
DEFLECT DRAGON BREATH--Useful if you meet a dragon (10)

4 USE:
------------------
    This displays a list of the active characters possessions with the exception of his/her initial equipment(i.e. personal weapons and items worn). It includes anything acquired during the course of play such as potions, scrolls, rings, ect. Any weapon in excess of the two usable by the character are listed here. Excess weapons can't be used by the character, although they will contribute towards the experience points total at the end of the game. A characters carry limit is affected by quivers or arrows and pouches of bullets.

5 TAKE:
---------------------
     This command applies to the currently occupied area and lists any items that can be readily be picked up as well as any magic or invisible items that have been found. Due to the limited number of the items that any one character can carry, it may be necessary to select a different character to  pick up an item or have the current character drop or give an item first. Note that a dropped item will appear under this command when it is reselected. Should the list include one of the staffs ( due to the death of raistlin or goldmoon) there are restrictions on picking them up and using them.
    The staff of Magius-Nobody can pick it up apart from Raistlin, as they are all of the wrong alignment and will take damage if they attempt it.
    Blue crystal staff- Apart from goldmoon, riverwand, caramon, and sturm, anybody else will take damage from this clerical staff. Only goldmoon can use the staff unless she is dead or incapacitated, in which case one of the others may use the staff.

6 GIVE:
------------------------
    This lists all of the items owned by the lead character which can be transferred to another character. it does not include personal weapons or (for goldmoon and Raistlin) the staffs, but does include items such as potions, arrows, ect..
    To give an item, choose it on this sub-menu and press the fire button (or equivalent) to initiate the transfer. The highlight will then appear on the character icons. Move it to the character you wish to receive the item and press the fire button to complete the transfer. A characters carry limit cannot be exceeded by this procedure and the game will not allow the transfer to be completed. If you attempt it,you will return to the start of the give menu.

7 DROP:
---------------------------
    Drop shows all of a character possessions which can be dropped to the floor. As with the other sub-menus, this option does not list personal weapons (including raistians and goldmoons staff).

8 SAVE:
---------------------------
    Choosing Save allows you to save a game for completion at a later date. Before you preform this operation, you must have a formatted disk as mentioned earlier. Once save is selected follow the prompts provided to complete the save procedure.

9. RESTORE
------------------------------
    Use of this selection allows you to restart a previously saved game at any time. If you are already playing a game, it will be cancelled and replaced by the saved game which you reload. If you select it by mistake, you have the option to return to the Main Menu before any damage is done. If you proceed then you will be asked for the disk containing the saved game and prompted as to the correct procedure.

10  SCORE:
---------------------------------
    You can view your accumulated experience points during play by choosing this option. The number shown as a total is a summary of all points accumulated by characters that are still alive. The number of monsters killed is a running total of all monsters of the given type killed to that point of the game.

11  EXIT MENU
---------------------------------
    This selection provides the means of returning to the main game display and continuing the game.

F   WINNING THE GAME
----------------------------------
    You accumulate experience points during the play of the game. You get experience points for killing monsters, for gathering treasure, or for surviving to the end of the game. The current total score for the party can be viewed at any time from the main menu. Detailed scores(character by character as well as total) are provided at the end of a game. At this time, scores are listed for each character, and two party scores are given. One score is the total number of points of all surviving characters, and the second is the total of all characters, whether dead or alive at the end. These scores allow to compare games as well as giving a numerical value as a measure of success in any one game.

IV CHARACTERS
-----------------------------
TANIS
       Orphaned by the death of his elven mother, Ttanthalas, better known by the shorter, human form of his name as Tanis, was raised amongst the elves. However as a half-human, Tanis always felt somewhat of an outcast. Finally driven by his restless nature, he left the Qualinesti and headed for solace and the only outsider known to him, his friend flint. by the time he became involved with the companions - other than goldmoon and riverwand he had become an experienced half-elven fighter wandering the world of krynn in  search of true healing and clerics.A natural leader he has known, travelled with and fought beside the companions for many years. Although none of them knew it at the time their meeting became the start of their joint quest and the formation of the companions of the lance. His travels through an unsettled world, combined with his early training amongst the Qualinesti elves, have turned him into a master swordsman. Equipped with his elven blade, there are few fighters skilled enough to match him in combat. Of course, an enemy has to reach him first because his natural skill, augmented by plenty of practice with the bow, will usually stop all but the most determined opposition before it comes within reach of his sword arm.
         AD&D GAME STATISTICS
        ----------------------
STRENGTH=16 (DAMAGE +1)
Intelligence=12         Wisdom=13
Dexterity=16            Constitution=12
Charisma=15  Alignment-Neutral good:
Hit Points=35    Armor class=4

EQUIPMENT :
leather Armor +2
Longsword +2(Damage 1-8/1-12 vs. Giants)
Bow & Quiver of 20 arrows (damage 1-6)


CARAMON MAJERE:
    The twin brother of rastlin, Caramon can be considered a complete opposite to his brother. From early childhood Caramon made himself the protector of his weaker brother, recruiting him time and time again from bullying tormenters. His training as a warrior while a young child, was started by his sister, Kitiara, who later became a Dragon highlord in the service of Takhisis. Inseparable from his brother, except when raistlin was being schooled in the magic arts, Caramon lived all his life in solace. Here he met sturm, but it wasn't until their father's death that the twins met up with tasslehoff and, although this meeting, another of solace long-time inhabitants, flint fireforge. This was the start of the friendships which led to the formation of the companions of the lance. Although a well-trained warrior by this time, Caramon was relatively inexperienced in combat and it was his travels with his newly acquired friends( later to tanis) that turned him into a seasoned warrior. Travelling the country with raistin was always an exciting adventure. One of his brother's greatest joys was exposing false clerics as fraudulent charlatans making money at the expense of the sick and helpless. Usually, rather than being grateful, the people would turn on the twins who often only escaped serious harm as a result of caramon's increasing martial skills. It took a long time for them to realize that people don't like being shown as fools even for their own good. After some years of travel with Flint both on trading expeditions and on their own, they all met up again at the Inn in solace on that fateful night where they met riverwand and goldmoon.  The rest is history, as they say, and in this adventure, the conclusion is up to you.

              AD&D GAME STATISTICS
          ----------------------------
STRENGTH 18/63 (damage +3)
Intelligence=12    Wisdom=10
Dexterity=11       Constitution=17
Charisma=15        Alignment -lawful good
Hit points=36      Armor Class=6

Equipment
-----------
Ring mail armor
Longsword (damage 1-8)
spear (damage 1-6)


RAISTLIN MAJERE
--------------------
    So weak was he when he was born that he wasn't expected to live, Raistlin survived his childhood through his sisters effort and through the protection of his twin brother. Just before their fifth birthday, they were taken to the fair where a conjurer was preforming tricks and illusions. Caramon watched for a while then wandered off, but his brother stayed all day and that evening astonished his family by reproducing every trick he'd seen preformed. Shortly after his sixth birthday, the family took raistlin,in to a master mage who, although at first not overly impressed by the boy, took him as an pupil after he was found in the mage's library reading a spellbook, thought to be impossible without years of study. Never popular and often bored, his studies continued despite his contempt for both fellow students and instructors. This period reinforced Camamon's protective attitudes towards his brother, providing the root for raistlin's general dislike of humanity at large, together with a deep and lasting sympathy for the weak. During this period, rastlin supplemented the families income by public preformances of illusions and tricks, which often brought him into open conflict with his school. One of these public disagreements led to the twins meeting tasslehoff and subsequently flint. Rastlin was destined to become the youngest mage to take(and pass) the test which confirmed his future power and gained him his staff, while leaving him a physical wreck.

AD&D GAME STATISTICS

STRENGTH=10
INTELLIGENCE=17  WISDOM=14
DEXTERITY=16     CONSTITUTION=10
CHARISMA=10 ALIGNMENT NEUTRAL
HIT POINTS =8    ARMOR CLASS=5

EQUIPMENT

STAFF OF THE MAGIS (+3 PROTECTION +2 TO HIT DAMAGE 1-8)
CLOSE COMBAT WITH STAFF AS WEAPON
RANGED COMBAT SEE SPELL LIST



STURM BRIGHTBLADE
-------------------------------
    The son of one of the remaining true knights of Solamina, Sturm was sent south with his mother for safety when his father could no longer guarantee the security of their home. His father was to have sent for them when things calmed down- he never did. At this time, the knights were looked down upon by the general population of krynn as they were unjustly blamed for failing in their duties and not stopping the cataclysm. Conscious of his fathers position and duties, sturm dedicated his life to the knighthood and became a well trained but inexperienced fighter by the time he met Caramon. Drawn together by their mutual interests, they quickly became fast friends and for caramon's sake he even somewhat befriended raistlin. He holds the high ideals of his father and the knights despite the difficulty of maintaining them in the current state of the world. His rescue of raistlin's master pouch caused their first meeting with tasslehoff and their subsequent fellowship with flint and tanis. Flint taught sturm and caramon the wilderness survival skills that were to save their lives many times in the future. Their journeys with flint over the next few years formed them into a formidable group of adventurers who now bear the survival of krynn upon their shoulders. Finally, in the year 346, with flint's retirement the companions went their separate ways. Sturm went to solamina to search for his heritage but they all agreed to meet at the inn of the last home in five years time. having gained this inheritance by this time, Sturm was equipped as a knight of Solamina, and this meeting marked the start of the quest when they rescued goldmoon and riverwind.


AD&D STATISTICS

STRENGTH=17(+1 DAMAGE)
INTELLIGENCE=14   WISDOM=11
DEXTERITY=12      CONSTITUTION=16
CHARISMA=12       ALIGNMENT  LAWFUL GOOD
HIT POINTS=29     ARMOR CLASS=5

EQUIPMENT

CHAINMAIL ARMOR
TWO HANDED SWORD +3 (DAMAGE 1-10)
NO RANGED WEAPON



GOLDMOON
---------------------------------
    Daughter of the chieftain of the Que-shu tribe, goldmoon's future was mapped out from birth as whoever she married would become chieftain of the tribe. Unknown to everyone, the gods had different plans for her. The first inklings that none of this would come to pass came when she fell in love with riverwind rather than the supposed best warrior of the suitable young men.
    When riverwind returned from his quest to prove himself eligible for goldmoon, things really changed, the staff he returned with didn't appear to anything and her father condemned him to death. As the rest of the tribe started to stone him to death, goldmoon threw herself into his arms as she realized that she couldn,t live without him. Suddenly the staff flared with a brilliant blue light and they found themselves standing miles away from the village with all their injuries healed. Rejected by their tribe and realizing that the staff was something special, they decided to go to Solace and ask the seekers for their help in discovering the staff's true nature. The seekers were the nearest thing to clerics in solace but were also indirectly acting for Takhisis to recover the staff. Before riverwind and goldmoon could hand the staff over, they became involved in a fight at the inn and were rescued by the other companions. So begins the story of the heros of lance which leads to your task among the ruins of Xah-Tsaroth.

AD&D GAME STATISTICS
Strength=12     Wisdom=16
Intelligence=12 Constitution=12
Dexterity=14    Charisma=17
Hit Points=19   Armor class=6   Alignment -Lawful good


Equipment
Leather  Armor
Blue crystal staff(Damage 4-9,7-12 or 10-15)
clerical magic from staff, see sub-menu


RIVERWIND
-----------------------------
    Born into a family of virtual outcasts, there was no one in the Que-Shu with a lower social position. Riverwind's family refused to believe in the divinity of the tribal chieftain and were the last believers in the old gods. Tolerated for his skills, Riverwind would probably have been left alone to live his life were it not for his love for goldmoon, which led him to ask her father for permission to marry her. Her father gave him a task to prove his suitability for this marriage. He ordered riverwind to search for proof that the old gods still existed and not to return without a powerful magic item to convince the tribe. In reality, her father never expected to see him again. As the months passed, it seemed as though his wishes would be fulfilled but goldmoon never gave up hope and her faith was eventually rewarded.
    The riverwind that returned wasn't the same man that had left. He was harder, changed by things he had seen and unable to remember exactly where he had or he had done. later, when the companions had formed and made their way to Xah-Tsaroth, he realize that the ruined city was the place from which he had retrieved the staff. In his hand he carried a blue crystal staff but when asked to demonstrate its powers. he was unable to do so. The chieftain mocked him, called him a lair and ordered the tribe to stone him to death. When goldmoon joined him in the hail of stones, the staff flared with a blue light and teleported both of them out of the tribal village.

AD&D GAME STATISTICS

Strength=18(35) (Damage +3)
Intelligence=13 Wisdom=14
Dexterity=16    Constitution=13
Charisma=13 (Alignment lawful good)
Hit points=34   Armor Class=5


Equipment
Leather armor & shield
Longsword +2(Damage 1-8)
Bow & Quiver of 20 arrows(Damage 1-6)



TASSELHOFF BURRFOOT
-------------------------------
    Most people not only don't understand Kender but don't  want to know them. Part of the problem arises from their basic personality traits: Fearless, unbelievable curiosity, irresistible mobility, independence, and the need to pick up anything not screwed down( Unless they have a screwdriver in which case they....). The usual reaction to the sight of a Kender is to lock everything up and check your pockets. Although fully justified, this attitude is somewhat unfair because they do not see themselves as thieves. They do not steal for profit but out of their intense curiosity about everything. Even when caught 'in-the-act' they will offer an amazing range of excuses from "you dropped it,""It probably fell into my pocket'" to "I thought you didn't want it," and " I was just looking after it in case it got stolen". As far as they are concerned, it is only "borrowing" and they regard being called a thief a grave insult
    Apart from their size, Kender would be easily recognized by the number of pockets and pouches that festoon their clothing and their favored weapon, the hoopak. Used exclusively by them, its a combination of staff(shod in iron) and slingshot, giving a Kender a lethally potent weapon. Tasselhoff met flint through the normal actions of a Kender absolute amazement at being accused of stealing a bracelet as he walked off with it from flint's stall. Tanis arrived to calm the situation and it wasn't long before they were fast friends. Tass was later  responsible for the meeting with caramon, raistlin, and Sturm.

AD&D GAME STATISTICS

Strength=13
Intelligence=9  Wisdom=12
Dexterity=16    Constitution=14
Charisma=11     Alignment Neutral
Hit Points=15 Armor Class=6

Equipment
Leather Armor
Hoopak +2(Damage 3-8)
Sling +1 with pouch of 20 bullets (damage 2-7)



FLINT FIREFORGE
--------------------------------
     Born and bred a hill dwarf and raised in poverty Flint left home as soon as he was capable of earning a living. As the years passed and his skills as a metalsmith grew, His improved fortunes led him to buy a small house in solace, which became his base. From here he traveled widely due to the great demand for his skills, As his fame spread, samples of his work came to the attention of the elven leader in Qualinesti, resulting in his first invitation to become one of the few dwarves not only to visit the eleven kingdom, but to become a welcome visitor. Flint delighted in making ingenious toys which made him a children's favorite wherever he worked including amongst the elves. It was here that flint and tanis first met and, over many years became close friends, for flint was a solitary figure and tanis always felt an outcast due to his human blood. When Tanis finally left Qualinesti his natural destination was his old friend flint, Whom he joined in solace. He soon made himself very useful to flint, who made tanis his business partner.
    One day, while tanis was breakfasting at the inn, tass arrived at flint's stall and set in motion the events that quickly led to the meeting of all those destined to become the companions of lance when they rescued goldmoon and riverwind from the seekers. In the period leading to this rescue, the world became more perilous as the evil of Takhsis gained a stronger grip on krynn. Flint retired as it was no longer worth travelling and the friends went their separate ways with a promise to meet again after five years had passed. This fateful meeting brought them together with goldmoon and riverwind, setting in motion the train of events that brought you to the start of the quest.

AD&D GAME STATISTICS

Strength=16(damage +1)
Intelligence=7  Wisdom=12
Dexterity=10    Constitution=18
Charisma=13     Alignment Neutral good
Hit Points=42 Armor Class=6

Equipment
Studded leather armor and shield
Battleaxe +1 (damage 1-8)
throwing axes (damage 1-6)


MONSTERS
----------------------------
    During your travels through the ruins of Xah-Tsaroth you will meet many different beings ranging from ferocious animals to the evil and intelligent followers of Takhisis. The best response you can expect is indifference but the most usual is active hostility either because you are enemies or look like food. All opposition is described as monsters.
    If you meet anything, remember that is safer to defend yourself by ranged combat than to wait until within close combat range. You can more easily retreat from ranged combat than from close combat.

MEN
-----------------------------
    Any humans which you meet, if they are moving around freely, are going to be in the employ of the Dragon Highlords. Their usual equipment includes leather armor and swords. They will be eager to fight as they are all experienced soldiers, usually veteran mercenaries that serve as low status guards within the ruins.

BAAZ DRACONLANS
-----------------------------
    These Draconians are the smallest and the most plentiful kind. Used as common ground troops, they are at the bottom of the social order. Although often used as spies, as they can easily disguise their origins under robes with large hoods, you will have no problems recognizing them here in territory they regard as their own. They are quite fond of humans as a favored addition to their diet, So they will be eager to close and fight. They wear some armor and fight with swords. When killed their bodies turn to stone and crumble to dust.

GIANT SPIDERS
-----------------------------
    Just as the name implies, these monsters are large enough to pose problems to you and your party. Not being intelligent, giant spiders conclude " If it moves then it must be food" They are tough opponents, and will take a large amount of damage before dying. they attack by biting.

TROLLS
------------------------------
     These large, shambling humaniods are not highly intelligent but, like so many others, regard humans as a pleasant dietary supplement. They make very tough opponents as they are difficult to injure and, when finally wounded, their injuries start healing automatically. they are more efficiently injured if burnt. They come equipped with formidable jaws and claws, capable of inflicting terrible injuries.

SPECTRAL MINIONS
-------------------------------
     The spirits of humans or demihumans who died before they could complete powerful quests or vows they are still bound just as when they were alive. They may not attack unless their daily routine is interfered with, but, as this routine consists of repeating the actions leading to their deaths, it is virtually impossible not to interfere. Very often just being present is regarded as interference and results in a attack on the entire party
    Spectral Minions look exactly as they did at the time of their deaths (Like normal humans but transparent in varying degrees), So if you can see the wall through your opponent, it's probably not human. They used the weapons they died with, usually swords and are intelligent opponents, not to be taken lightly.

BOZAK DRACONIANS
------------------------------
     These draconians are slightly larger and less plentiful than their baaz kin. They are the magic users of the dragonmen, dedicated to the purposes of the dragonlords. Highly intelligent and without mercy once they attack, bozak are deadly opponents. They share the general draconian liking for humans, similarly regarding them as a favored addition to their diet as well as opponents to the will of Takhsis. So they will be eager to fight. They do not wear armor but are actually harder to injure than the armored baaz. They use magical attacks such as magic missile. When killed, the flesh dries and crumbles from their bones which will then explode causing injury to anyone too close.

AGHAR (GULLY DWARVES)
------------------------------
    As the lowest class of dwarf, the aghar are denied  kin status by other dwarves and are regarded as comical nuisances to humans. Their strongest instinct is survival and they see cowardice as a virtue and raise grovelling to the status of a art form. they originated from inter-marriages between dwarves and gnomes in the distant past. This new race lacked all of the better qualities of their parents and they were driven out to survive as best they could. The cataclysm proved their salvation by giving them access to dozens of ruined cities including Xah-Tsaroth. Gully dwarves will remove a character body if not raised

HATCHLING BLACK DRAGONS
------------------------------
    They are exactly what their name says, baby black dragons. But don't try petting them unless you don't mind losing an arm. They will breathe acid whenever you come across them. like all young dragons, they can take punishment without serious injury, and although newly hatched, they make vicious little killers since they are not adverse to a little fresh human now and then. Too young for magic use, with a single blast of acid they inflict substantial damage

WRAITHS
------------------------------
    The spirits of evil beings, condemned or determined to stay in our world, these undead are amongst the most deadly opponents you could ever meet. Needing no weapons, their very touch is deadly, not so much for the physical injuries caused, but for the life force such a touch can steal. The wraith's black evil is only matched by its black appearance as it glides towards you intent on stealing your life force.

KISANTH
------------------------------
    The guardian of the "disks of mishakal" is probably the only thing deadlier than the wraiths. kisanth is an ancient, huge, black dragon . She is skilled in the practice of staying alive capable of lethal blasts of acid breath. She is the final obstacle that you must overcome before completing your task in the ruins of Xah-Tsaroth.
    
GENERAL ADVICE
------------------------------
    Moving deeper into the ruined city, the greater the danger you will face since more dangerous monsters prefer to live in the lower reaches of the ruins. You must learn effective ways of dealing with different monsters as you explore. Don't be ashamed to run away if you feel that you can't handle a given encounter or are already seriously injured from previous meetings. Strategic withdrawals(running for your life) allow you to heal injuries gained in other fights and thus equip you to better face a new opponent. Be aware however that as you progress father and father into Xah-Tsaroth, the party's presence will begin to draw more and more monsters. To delay is to allow your enemies an advantage. it is not wise to start a fight with a badly injured party unless there is no other option. Although you will have to fight many times, your real purpose is to recover the "Disks of mishakal" which will restore the worship of the old gods -- the true gods of krynn. You may fail many times before succeeding and even then you can try this quest again and again for there is more than one way to success. every new game is different. However, if you save and restore a game it will still be the same game with already explored areas unchanged.


LOST AND FOUND--OBJECTS IN THE RUINS
------------------------------------
     The city was abandoned in blind panic as the cataclysm struck. People fled in terror leaving things behind. While the more obvious items have been looted over the following centuries, there remain many useful things simply overlooked, lost or abandoned by looters or later inhabitants of the ruins. While you have the ability to find magis items, remember that even detect spells use energy which may be more useful elsewhere. Using to many detect spells may attract magic-sensitive monsters. Also, searching for things takes time and may allow you to be found by things you'd rather not meet. You must balance your actions accordingly.

SCROLLS
------------------------------
    These items contain pre-prepared spells that are ready for instant use by raistlin. Any character may pick up a scroll but only raistlin can use it. You must select the required scroll from the USE sub-menu and, the next time raistlin enters ranged combat mode, it will be the first spell used.

SWORDS
------------------------------
    Although the characters cannot use weapons found within the ruins, They can gain experience points from picking up such items to improve their standing at the end of the game . Acquired weapons cannot be used as they are unfamiliar to the characters, who would lose their skill bonuses for their normal weapons.

OTHER WEAPONS AND AMMUNITION
------------------------------
    Other weaponry that may be located by characters includes quivers of arrows and pouches of bullets for the sling user. These should be picked up whenever they are found as combat uses up large quantities of such things. Where possible, try to use single shots in ranged combat rather than rapid fire as it will considerably reduce the expenditure of arrows and bullets. A bullet is a small lead pellet that can inflict damage when fired by an experienced sling user.
    There are some other items around such as bows and daggers but they are subject to the same usage limitations as swords.

POTIONS
------------------------------
    There are many potions to be found in the ruins, mostly concealed by magic. Many date back to the time of the cataclysm as few people took the time to recover concealed items while fleeing for their lives. They are not all the same and can help in a variety of ways. The only way to find out the effect of a potion is to try it. While they are different colors, each type is the same color. If you try one and discover its effect, then another of the same color has the same effect.
    Any character can pick a potion but you may have to transfer it to another character to use it. To drink a potion, it must be in the inventory of the character you wish to drink it. If this is the case, select USE from the main menu and the potion from from the sub-menu listing usable items.  The potion is drunk and its effect applied to the character.  If you see no change, the potion may be unsuitable for that character or you may be in the wrong location for its effect.
    Healing potions cause a permanent change by healing wounds.  They are not all of the same strength and their effect varies.  They only restore damage taken and cannot increase a characters "Hit Points" beyond the starting value.  These potions can be drunk by anyone.
    Strength and Invulnerability potions both last for a certain amount of time (variable) and only affect Tanis, Riverwind, Caramon, Sturm, and Flint.  While their effects last, they can be very useful in dangerous situations.
    Strength potions increase the amount of damage inflicted by the character every time a successful hit is inflicted on an opponent.  The amount of this extra damage can vary as some potions are stronger than others.
    Invulnerability potions give immunity to non-magical attacks, make it more difficult to be hit by magical attacks and increase resistance to the effects of a magical hit.  The minimum length of time for both to be effective is the same, but invulnerability potions are capable of lasting much longer.
    If you are very lucky, you may even find potions that allow you to control monsters for a short time or until you attempt to kill them.  Unfortunately, it is very difficult to discover the effect of this type of potion as it apparently does nothing unless your characters are in the presence of the target monster-types.  However, if you do discover the purpose of such a potion then it will usually allow you to walk right up to a monster and attack it with no initial attempt at defense until a character hits it.


RINGS
------------------------------
    There are several magic rings which may be used by any character.  Selecting a ring from the USE sub-menu means that it will then be worn until it is given away, dropped, or the character is killed.  Rings can have many effects but the types you are likely to find will make the wearer more difficult for monsters to hit.  Some are more effective than others and once put on, all work indefinitely.  Until selected as above, they do nothing and are regarded as being carried around in a pouch or pocket rather than being worn.


WANDS
------------------------------
    Only usable by Raistlin, wands provide a device to fire a spell. Each one has a limited number of charges and, when used, the wand crumbles to dust.  If you are lucky enough to find a wand, once it is in Raistlin's possession it can be used by selecting USE from the sub-menu and will stay as the active Ranged Combat weapon until discharged or changed by another selection.


MISCELLANEOUS
------------------------------
    There are various other items such as jewelry or other treasure but these, like much of the above, are not just lying around unguarded.  They may have monsters with them or your efforts to search for things may attract their attentions.  Another possibility is a trap - some items and areas are protected by traps which you may trigger.  There may be some indication of a trap, either something obvious or maybe a situation too tempting to be true.  Such traps can be triggered from a distance or can be avoided if a suitable character finds them.  You will learn about these and many other things as you experience the world of the "Heroes of The Lance." Good luck ... you'll need it!




FILLER





Heroes of the Lance is pretty easy. There are 3 modes, and the keys are 
different for each mode. The keys you use to fight and move are on the numeric 
keypad....Here's a quick doc:

Key    Mode              Description
---    ----------------  ---------------------------------------------------
 1     Close Combat      Move backwards (assuming your character faces right)
 4         "              "
 7         "              "
 3         "             Thrust Low
 6         "             Thrust
 9         "             Thrust High
 2         "             Dodge
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
 2     Ranged Combat     Dodge
 3         "             Fire Low
 6         "             Fire
 9         "             Fire High
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
 4      Movement         Left 
 7         "             Left at double speed
 6         "             Right
 9         "             Right at double speed
 8         "             In
 2         "             Out
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Insert  pops up the menu
Escape  exit menu
Return  fire button

To select a different character, use the menu option and move to the character 
with the cursor keys and hit enter. A joystick is better for this game, and 
the moves map into the cursor keys...ie if you want to move left in the 
Movement mode, push the joystick to the left where the 4 key is on the keypad, 
to move at double speed left, push the joystick to where the 7 key is, etc...
Hope this helps!
Bilbo