BeastInstall history
(I'm sorry, but this was written after I made the patch, so it misses the
dates... As you will see, it doesn't look like a revision history at all,
but this really is one, and it relates the making of this patch fairly
accuratly)

Prelude. At the beginning of the world

Once upon a time... the very first version of this patch :

Writing of the install slave. (not very hard)

Writing of the Beast slave. (not very easy)

(Followed many crashes that it would be annoying to describe)

I. Happy days

Some times later, (I don't remember if it was hours or days... Maybe the
distant and terrific influence of Maletoth disturbed my sense of reality)
I tried to run it and there it was, the psygnosis logo slowly appeared on
my screen, with some strange inhuman music coming from the deep of the
speakers of my Amiga.

I watched this closely, in search of a bug that I never found. Eventually,
the end of the intro was reached and all ran perfectly. Suddently,
it asked me a disk 2 that was supposed to be obsolete... But it didn't
surprised me, as I had not yet patched the code that followed the intro.

II. The dark age

I was now at the frontier of the dark land, also known as 'Main program'.
All my preceding successes did not prepared me to the horrific things I
would encounter in this malevolent place.

First of all, I created a magic gate to go through the Intro to the main
program directly, that I was able to summon by the magic formula 'Escape'.
Then I began to patch some monstruous disk load routines, which were
helped by a set of small spiky creatures, the diskchanges, that I had to
kill one by one.

It was easier than I supposed it to be, and I found it strange. I was sure
that something hidden in the depth of the code was waiting to attack my
patch, and to make a gigantic crash.

I tried to run it anyway, so I used my magic gate to skip through
the intro, and the main code loaded... And appeared on screen a set of
weird random things, with a fully bugged palette, that scrolled in almost
all directions simultaneously. Fortunately, the music was playing correctly,
Which was the sign that the program was working, a bit... So I killed it
by making a reset.


