Their Finest Mission Docs
Brought to you by STARK of SKID ROW

!and fixed by [RYGAR]

For Amiga 500, 1000, 2000:

If you are running Their Finest Hour from a floppy drive, we recommend that
you first make a backup copy of the Finest Missions disk and put the original
in a safe place (make sure your backup copy is also named "BobData").  Then,
boot the program, select "Fly Custom Mission" from the main menu, and insert
your copy of the Finest Missions disk when prompted.  Choose the mission you
want to fly from the list of available missions, and insert subsequent disks
as prompted.

If you are running Their Finest Hour from a hard drive, you will need to copy
the missions into the bob 1940 directory.  Starting from the CLI, insert the
Finest Missions disk in any drive, then type:
copy BobData: Bob 1940 ALL QUIET and press RETURN.

When the missions have been copied, you can remove the floppy disk and store
it in a safe place.

Boot Their Finest Hour and select "Fly Custom Mission" from the main menu.
You will be presented with a list of available missions from which to choose.

If any of the bonus pilots should ever be killed in action, you can revive
them from their backup file (also included on the disk).  To do this, type:
copy name.bak to name.???

where name is the name of the pilot, and .??? is the pilot type
(.raf, .109, .110, .j87, or .bmb).

Introduction

Presented for your dogfighting and bombardiering pleasure, here are twenty-
three of the toughest and most exciting missions we've seen for Their Finest
Hour: The Battle of Britain.  A few of the missions were created by the
finalists in our 1990 Tournament which was co-sponsored by Computer Gaming
World magazine.  Our testers also contributed three of their favorites, and
Lawrence Holland's own "SUICIDE" mission is included for those of you who feel
you're up to the challenge.

All other missions were designed by our own resident Their Finest Hour ace,
Gregory Hammond.

As a bonus, we've also included one experienced pilot for each type of
aircraft featured in Their Finest Hour: The Battle of Britain.  And don't
worry, if any of these pilots should ever be killed in action, you can revive
them from their backup file.

Flying the Missions

SPITFIRE

"Sneakers"
As you patrol at 19,000 feet, Dover CHL radar station has detected several
groups of incoming German bombers flying at low level.  Your vic has just been
vectored to intercept them as your radio crackles to life again to warn of
small formations of enemy fighters at high altitude.

"Spoiler"
The He 111's just taking off from Wissant airfield in France have a nasty
surprise coming...as part of a particularly aggressive Spitfire squadron, you
and your mates decide to take your patrol a little farther out this morning.
Before you know it, you're over the coast of France and you've spotted a
formation of German bombers as they begin their takeoff roll.  This raid would
be a piece of cake were it not for the group of Bf 110's flying escort.

"Dododown" Designed by Wayne Cline
You and two buddies take off from Hawkinge airfield on an alert from Fighter
Command...a large group of German bombers is forming up over Calais.  You are
on the offensive as you reach the coast of France and find that some of the
bombers are still taxiing on the ground!  Watch out for enemy fighter cover.

"Panic!"
Ventnor radar has detected a large formation of German aircraft, most likely
Ju 87 Stukas, heading directly for a small convoy located SE of the Isle of
Wight.  You and your wingman scrambled from Warmwell airfield, and were to
rendezvous with other British fighters, but they were diverted to higher
priority areas to the East.  Intercept the oncoming storm of enemy aircraft
before they hit the convoy.

"Goodhvnz"
As you and your wingman patrol at 6,000 feet, Bf 110s approach to bomb Debden
airfield and the Hurricane factory at Langley.  You've got enough time to
intercept them, but their Bf 109 escorts will certainly make your job much
more difficult.

HURRICANE

"Bounce!"
Oh, boy!  A gaggle of Stukas just ripe for the picking...off, that is.  Follow
your flight leader as he goes in to bounce the bombers, but watch out for the
Bf 109s flying top cover.  And if you let any of the Stukas get away, there
are some people in Ventnor who'll be mighty upset!

"Hurri-up"
Dover radar reports a formation of enemy aircraft heading North from Calais.
Fighter Command has ordered a scramble from Manston to intercept the Germans,
but it's not known whether their target is Dover radar or the convoy in the
Channel.

"123Punch"
This is not a pretty sight...several groups of Ju 88s are incoming toward two
industrial military targets and a radar station.  Earlier attempts to
intercept this attack were thwarted by heavy fighter escort, and there are
still some Bf 110s flying with the bombers.  Your small flight of Hurricanes
is all that remains to stop the raid.

"Hevyrain"
South coast radar has detected small scattered formations of German bombers
approaching the area of Tangmere and points East.  You and your wingman have
been vectored to intercept the closest of these groups.  You'll have to handle
each group very quickly to prevent them from hitting their intended targets.
Watch for Bf 109s escorting.

BF 109 E

"Sweep1" Designed by Steve Smith
On a fighter sweep, you and your novice wingman encounter more than your share
of trouble.  Five Spitfires, with reinforcements coming constantly, challenge
you to a duel and you have no choice to accept.  Destroy as many enemy
fighters as you can.

"Jim2" Designed Vaclav Ujuk
You and four other Bf 109s fly escort for a group of three Ju 88s as they
attack the Dover CHL radar station.  It's a good thing you've got some
friendly company on this mission, because you may encounter as many as 37
Hurricanes!

"Niteraid" Designed by William W. Burns
Navigating by the light of a full moon, you are part of a daring mission to
bomb and strafe a pair of targets along the Southeastern coast of England.
Along with three other Bf 109 E-4Bs, you'll hit Dover radar station, then
Hawkinge airfield.  Protect your wingmen from prowling Spitfires, and pick up
any ground targets they miss.

"DavyJonz"
You and a wingman take off from Campagne-Guines to escort three pairs of Bf
110s on a bombing mission to destroy a convoy.  Reconnaissance reports many
enemy fighters patrolling the area...this convoy must be carrying something
valuable to warrant so much attention!

"Audacity"
As a new member of the elite JG 26 squadron, you feel obligated to impress
your more experienced comrades.  Mounting a camera onto your E-4B, you take
off and find a suitable target just to goad the British into a fight. Tangmere
airfield seems a likely hotspot.  After bombing one of the hangars there, duke
it out with the Spits and Hurri's that pursue you.  Then, be sure to make it
safely back to your home airfield so you can show off your exploits on film.

BF 110 C-4

"Lordhaha" Designed by Roger Besaw (Winner of the 1990 Tournament)
On a (hopefully) low profile, deep penetration mission, your orders are to
bomb Stanmore Fighter Command HQ.  The object of this mission is not only to
damage Fighter Command's HQ, but also to put a dent in British morale.  You
can bet you'll meet plenty of resistance, but if you get in and out quickly,
you'll probably survive.

"Suicide" Designed by Lawrence Holland
You must have been crazy to accept this assignment!  Piloting a lone Bf 110,
you are to fly across the Channel and bomb the Dover CHL radar station.  Your
timing could have been better, as there are numerous enemy fighter groups on
patrol in the same areas you'll be flying through. Good luck...you'll need it.

"UCanDoIt"
You and a wingman are to escort two flights of Ju 87 dive bombers Northward
from their base at Cherbourg to attack a British convoy.  Watch for
intercepting enemy fighters at any point along the flight path.  Once the
Stukas have successfully bombed their target, you are to fly Eastward, back to
your home base at Lille.  (Hint: You can potentially earn more points if you
actually fly all the way back home.)

Ju 87 Stuka

"Tough2" Designed by Steve Piotrowski
For some reason, you've been separated from the rest of your flight.  But,
like any good soldier, you push on to complete your mission: to bomb the
Ventnor CHL radar station.  Unfortunately, without any friendly planes around,
you're quite vulnerable to attacks by British fighters...sure hope you don't
run into any!

"Stukaman"
On a mission that would challenge any Stuka pilot, you must not only dive bomb
the Spitfire factory at Southhampton, but also act as escort for the four
other Ju 87s flying this mission with you.  Keep your eyes peeled on the way
home for enemy fighters...they'll jump at the chance for an easy Stuka kill.

DO 17Z-2

"Dodobird"
Fly in a tight formation of four Dorniers to bomb the Pobjoy Stirling bomber
factory.  You'll have two Bf 109 escorts, but this is only their fourth flight
as fighter pilots, so don't expect too much help from them.  Spitfires are
everywhere, so you'll want to stay in tight formation as much as possible to
maximize the effectiveness of your group's combined firepower.

HE 111 H-3

"Espionaj" Designed by William W. Burns
On one of the most important missions never to happen in World War II, you are
to land at Tangmere airfield at night to pick up a high level spy who has
captured the secret of British radar (yes, you'll have to use your
imagination!).  As you make a power-off landing at Tangmere, you instruct your
gunners to strafe the Spitfires parked on the ground.  Taxi past the hangars
just long enough to let your passenger jump aboard, then take off to the East
to bomb Poling and Truleigh radar stations.  Bf 110s will also attack
Tangmere, and then escort you for the remainder of your mission.  Good luck!

"Cleanup"
In the afternoon of Alder Tag, you and your flight leader are on the tail end
of a raid to knock out radar installations along the Southeastern coast of
England.  As you fly Southwestward along the coast, watch each radar site to
see if any of the buildings there were missed by previous bomber attacks.
Also watch for enemy fighters being vectored to your area.

JU 88 A-1

"Wham-Bam"
Follow your flight leader in to dive bomb the airfield at Martlesham.  Since
there are three buildings to hit, and only two of you, you'll have to watch
him to see which structure he targets.  You've only got one Bf 109 escort, but
he's supposed to be one of the best.  Still, there will probably be heavy
resistance, so be alert on both your attack run and the trip home.

Their Finest Missions Volume One and the Docs were brought to you by:

                     S K I D   R O W in 1991!!

      Greetings to all our friends and call our boards worldwide!
