                     THE GRIMOIRE - The full solution.

This  is  not  the  only  possible  sequence  of  events  for finishing the
adventure,  and  does  not include much scenery or clue-hunting. (Note that
this  adventure does not include the Level 9 type feature "go to ....", you
have find the locations yourself.):-

Go to the top floor of library and examine the table. Take the money. Go to
the bus station.

Buy the cabbage, brush, sandwich and clove (of garlic). (You should examine
the stall). Alternatively try buying the knife and killing the greengrocer,
then taking all except the corpse.

Find  the  cat  (Furry Julie) either by waiting repeatedly, or by exploring
the locations before the manhole. She wanders through these.

Give  the sandwich to the cat and get her. (You can only pick her up if you
have  fed  her and not attacked her.) Go to the library basement. The books
there,  if  read,  contain  heavy  handed  clues.   Go down the hole, which
closes,  trapping you. You should be seeing through the cat's eyes. Go East
twice (to the Satanist's chapel).

Do  not  stay  in the Satanist's chapel too long. Put all except Julie into
the  coffin  and get it. You can check to see that it has all gone into the
coffin. Go West twice, and then North.

Examine  the  stream  (which is safe to drink from) and get the flagon. You
may  have  to drop the coffin first. Don't drop Julie, in case she runs off
leaving you in the dark.

Drink  the ale. (You do not need the empty flagon, but it may, like some of
the articles on the stall, be used for mapping.)

Go  to the underground lake (East) and either "float coffin" or "put coffin
in  water".  You will then be transported across the lake, using the coffin
as  your  boat.  It  will disappear, leaving your possessions on the beach.
Don't drink from the lake.

Get  all  and go up to the crossroads. Do not attempt to go North until you
have dealt with the Vampire, as the Werewolf will scare the cat away.

There  are  two  puzzles  which involve doing something which has an effect
several turns later. There is no limit on the number of turns taken, but it
may be convenient to perform the action(s) required, do something else, and
come  back later for the result. On the other hand there is no penalty for,
for  example,  using  "wait" (perhaps using "g" for "again" to save typing)
for 12 or more times.

Firstly  the  clove  of  garlic which you got from the greengrocer is a bit
stale.  If  you  go  to the riverbank (South then West from the crossroads)
there  are suitable planting conditions, but it will take time for the wild
garlic to grow.

Secondly, and it takes some preparation first, you need to get a stake.

Get  the  can of creosote from inside the woodshed, then go out and examine
the  woodshed, and get the woodworm. You will also need to find and get the
gloves found in the undergrowth outside.

Leave the sacred grove area and go West from the crossroads. South from the
track  is a ruined cottage, with an enormous beam. Paint the beam (you must
have  the brush and the can of creosote). You will not have enough creosote
for all the beam. Drop the woodworm, which will take a while to get through
the untreated section. A stake is all that is left.

A job which may be done while waiting, is to obtain the sacred relic of St.
Mary  Magdalen.  Go  to  the Oak tree in the grove. It is hollow and may be
entered.  Examine  the acorns and leaves on the floor inside to get the key
to  the  convent, which lies East of the crossroads. Unlock the door and go
in.

The  convent is a maze. Go North (or East or South), then N, E, S, W. "Kiss
Mary"  (it gets a bit Leasure Suit Larry-ish here I'm afraid), and when she
goes back to heaven, get all. Find you way out again.

With the saced relic, you can (by getting killed with it in your possesion,
and  going  to  heaven  rather  than  hell)  find  your way back to the bus
station.  If  you  have  lost  the  cat  then  so long as you have not done
anything  to  upset it, you should be able to find her in her usual haunts,
and, via the tunnels (the coffin will be back in the chapel), get back.

To take on the Vampire, you need the cat, the stake, wild garlic, the cross
from  the  convent, and a spade (found by examining the gorse bushes of the
track, if you are wearing gloves). At the graveyard, dig. Down, is the tomb
antechamber. South of this is the burial chamber.

In  the  burial chamber open the sarcophagus (the lid will break). Out will
come  the  vampire  which  you have to kill. Enter the sarcophagus, and you
will  find  that  vampires have a better life than expected; it leads to an
appartment. You will need the sword.

East from the appartment will port you back to the burial chamber. Go North
and then Up to leave.

Before  you  attempt  the werewolf, go to the garden (South of the cottage)
and  examine  the  weeds.  With the useless dandelions and daisies you find
some aconite (also known as "wolf'sbane"). Get it.

North  from  the  crossroads  are  the  downs,  which  are simply 4 similar
locations in a square, no tricks with twisted paths here. There is a better
than  average  chance of meeting the werewolf, who will scare Julie. If you
are carrying the aconite you will be able to pass. If you want to fight the
werewolf you may, but you may well lose and it is a needless risk.

Beyond  the downs are the mountains, and in the mountains you will find the
dragon's  lair.  When  you  get in, don't waste time, kill the dragon. (You
need  the  sword  and  you  must  have  drunk  the  enchanted  ale from the
underground stream). You may then take the Grimoire.

Get  yourself killed (there is a convienient cliff not too far away, or you
could  try  paddling  in  the  underground lake). Because you have the holy
relic, you go to heaven.

In  heaven, examination of the concrete post will tell you that it is a bus
stop.  "Wait"  for  a bus, and because you should still have you tee-shirt,
(examine it if you like), the bus driver will let you on. Soon the bus will
take  you  to  the bus station, and you can then be first to return to your
class with a Grimoire.

  * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
