     I N D I A N A   J O N E S   &   T H E   L A S T   C R U S A D E 

                          (The Graphic Adventure)

                          (U.S. Gold/Lucasfilms)




SECTION ONE: BARNETT COLLEGE



TALK  to  Marcus at the start - (Select: "What do you mean, considering his

situation?",  then:  "After  my job, eh? Who is this expert?"...to learn of

John  Reid)  - Walk to the drinking fountain - USE DRINKING FOUNTAIN - Walk

to  the  Gymnasium  -  CLOSE  DOOR  -  Walk  to the Locker Room - (You will

automatically change and enter the boxing ring..........select: "Go easy on

me.  I'm a bit out of shape!"......when the fight commences, just hold down

the '9' key until it is over.......you ALWAYS win!) - (Now select: "I think

I'll  pass  for  now.  Maybe  another time"..........you will automatically

leave  the  ring and change) - Walk to the door - OPEN DOOR - Go through it

to   the   left   -   Walk   to   the   first   (and  only!)  door  on  the

screen.......opposite  the  girl  talking)  - OPEN DOOR - Enter this door -

(You  will now be in a classroom of ranting students!) - TALK TO STUDENTS -

(Select:   "Just   a   moment   folks,  I'm  sure  we  can  work  something

out".......then:  "Please  relax.  I  have  a  solution  that  is  fair  to

everyone".....then:  "Irene,  take  down  names  and I will see everyone in

order") - (You will now be in your office) - Walk over to the window on the

right - OPEN THE WINDOW - Go through the window.



(You  will  automatically  be picked up by two guys and taken to see Walter

Donovan.  Note  the  words: "....a spring welling up inside him for eternal

life"...."through the desert to the canyon of the crescent moon"....."where

the   cup   that   holds  the  blood  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord  resides

forever"...and  the  clues:  'this slab is one of two markers left by three

knights during he First Crusade'..........'this Franciscan manuscript tells

of the second marker buried with one of the knights'...........'it suggests

that  a  description  of  the Grail can be found on the way to the Knight's

tomb'..........'it  also says a painting was made of the Grail that answers

a  question  my  Father  had:  Does  the Grail actually glow? and 'our team

leader believes it is in Venice, Italy - and that is where he disappeared'.

You are automatically returned to outside the College).



Select  TRAVEL  then HENRY'S HOUSE - Walk over to the tilted bookcase which

is  on top of another one - PULL BOOKCASE - Select WHAT IS and position the

marker  precisely  on  Indy's right hand, to see "Sticky Tape" - Walk to it

then  PICK  UP  STICKY  TAPE  -  LOOK  STICKY  TAPE  to learn that it feels

lumpy....in  fact  it  contains  a key but you'll need to dissolve the tape

first - Walk into the bedroom to the right and PICK UP the small picture by

the  first window - LOOK PAINTING - (a painting of a trophy) - Walk back to

the  door  - Position the marker in the greenery of the pot plant - PICK UP

PLANT  -  PICK UP TABLECLOTH - OPEN CHEST - (Locked!!) - Go back outside to

return to the College.



Walk  up  to  the  front  door  -  OPEN DOOR then enter it - Return to your

classroom  -  (back  to face those screaming students!......there are other

ways  - using he window for access - to pass through this part of the game,

but  doing  this bit TWICE in TWO DIFFERENT ways, gains the most points!) -

TALK to the Students - Select: "Perhaps you all should find another faculty

advisor"...then:     "There's     a    geology    professor    who    knows

archeology"....then:  "Professor  John  Reid.  Tell him Mulbray recommended

him"  -  (You  are  now  back in your office) - Walk over to the JAR in the

centre of the first rack - OPEN JAR - USE STICKY TAPE IN JAR - (to get your

key!)  -  CLOSE  JAR  - Walk behind your desk - PICK UP JUNK MAIL - PICK UP

LETTERS - PICK UP PAPERS - PICK UP PACKAGE - (you automatically replace the

letters, papers and junk mail).



OPEN PACKAGE - (to find your Father's Grail Diary) - Walk over to your door

on  the  right - OPEN DOOR - Walk through it - CLOSE your door - Walk right

across  the  classroom,  which is now empty! - Walk over to the door on the

right  -  OPEN  DOOR - Walk through it and CLOSE DOOR - Go back outside the

College - Select 'TRAVEL' and return to 'HENRY'S HOUSE' - Walk to the chest

-  USE  SMALL  KEY ON CHEST - Select WHAT IS and move the marker around the

chest  until  you  locate  an OLD BOOK - PICK UP OLD BOOK - LOOK OLD BOOK -

(This  is  a  'copy'  of  the Grail Diary, that you made as a little boy) -

CLOSE  CHEST  and  leave - (You are now ready to leave for Venice) - Select

'TRAVEL' then 'TO THE PLANE TO VENICE' - (The game will now 'autorun' for a

while).



SECTION TWO: VENICE

(You now have your famous whip!)



(Take   note   of  that  MANHOLE  COVER  -  it  is  your  way  out  of  the

Catacombs.......you'll  also  need  an  empty  wine  bottle)  -  (when  the

automatic  sequence  ends,  you will be alone in the foyer of the Library -

apart from that deaf librarian!) - Go back outside and make your way to the

patio  where  you arrived in Venice - Walk over to the far left table where

the  two lovers are talking over a bottle of wine - LOOK WINE BOTTLE - PICK

UP  WINE  BOTTLE  - (Sometimes they may NOT have finished with it - in that

case  walk around the other tables and keep trying to pick it up until they

let  you  -  Having  obtained  the  empty wine bottle return to the Library

foyer.



(You  now  have  to search all the stacks of books and obtain the following

THREE  books:  "MEIN  KAMPF",  "FLIGHT MANUAL" and "BOOK OF MAPS"........be

patient,  this  takes time!!) - LOOK at every stack and when you locate the

correct  section  for  the particular title you are seeking, select WHAT IS

and  find  'BOOK'  as opposed to 'BOOKS'. When you have obtained all three,

LOOK  at them for further hints and clues - Now locate the METAL POST (with

the  RED  CORDON)  and  PICK UP both of them.......you only need to PICK UP

METAL POST and the cordon comes with it!



Now  walk  to  the Stained Glass window (not the foyer) and Walk up to it -

LOOK  WINDOW  -  LOOK  GRAIL  DIARY - (Note the design of the window on the

page,  particularly  the positions of the ANGELS, the pattern of the SHIELD

and  the  design  resting  ATOP  THE  SHIELD. Walk around the stained glass

windows until you find the one that MATCHES EXACTLY that in your diary.



LOOK  GRAIL DIARY again and note the message below the picture:"If ye would

enter...........". This tells you which column to go to (LEFT or RIGHT) and

which  number  to  take  note  of  (FIRST,SECOND or THIRD) - Walk up to the

correct  column  -  LOOK  INSCRIPTION  -  (You  will  see  a  set  of Roman

numerals......note  the  one  you  require,  1st, 2nd or 3rd) - Walk to the

MATCHING  SLAB  - USE METAL POST WITH SLAB (Number?) - Ignore the Guard who

tries to stop you, and you are now in the Catacombs!!



NOTE

It is wise to save your game at this stage and these are the items that you

should currently have with you:

                            1.EMPTY WINE BOTTLE

                            2.BOOK OF MAPS

                            3.FLIGHT MANUAL

                            4.GRAIL DIARY

                            5.MEIN KAMPF

                            6.RED CORDON

                            7.OLD BOOK

                            8.WHIP

                            9.SMALL KEY

                           10.PAINTING



Looking at the Book Of Maps provides a rough guide as to the layout of the

Catacombs.......but it is ONLY a guide!!



SECTION THREE: THE CATACOMBS IN VENICE



From the first chamber (with the steps, where you entered), proceed through

the  archway  facing  away  from  you in the centre of the screen. refer to

Level  1  of  the  Catacombs  maps  and  make your way to the two skeletons

chained  to  the  wall. Position the cursor over the hook on the arm of the

right-hand skeleton and PICK UP THE HOOK.



Refer  to the Level 1 map and make your way to the cavern with the torch on

the  wall.  The torch cannot be taken or lit but it is a lever to operate a

trapdoor  mechanism. However, it is rather encrusted with hard mud and this

must  first  be  loosened  with water. Exit right through the broken wooden

door.



Now  proceed  to  the cavern with skulls and bones. You will notice a stone

slab  in  the  floor.  This slab cannot be lifted from this side and is, in

fact,  the  only EXIT from Level 1A, as we shall soon see! Exit through the

right tunnel.



Follow  the maps to the pool of water. You need to get beyond this water to

gain  access to the lower levels (2&3) of the Catacombs. Notice the plug at

the  bottom of the water-filled cavern - this must be removed from BELOW to

drain  the  water away. Let's get some water first for that torch! USE WINE

BOTTLE WITH POOL OF WATER.



Now  return  to where the torch is. (See map). Walk up to the torch and USE

WINE  BOTTLE  ON  TORCH to loosen the mud. PULL TORCH and down you go!! You

are now on Level 1A and you lose the wine bottle.



Make  your  way to the stone bridge. Cross the bridge to the other side and

you  are  now  inside  a small cavern. Walk up to the first inscription and

READ  INSCRIPTION.  They  refer to a description of the correct Grail. Walk

back over the bridge and stop directly under the plug. USE HOOK WITH WOODEN

PLUG.  Now  go left of the plug and USE WHIP WITH PLUG/HOOK. The water will

now be drained from that pool, collapsing the stone bridge in the process!!

Exit  left,  walk to the tunnel with the ladder and go up through the stone

slab, back to Level 1.



Exit  right  and  make  your  way to where the pool was. There we are - all

drained!  Exit  far right and follow the maps to the wooden machinery. Walk

up  to the machine and USE RED CORDON ON MACHINE to replace the drive belt.

Now, walk over to the wheel on the right and TURN ON WHEEL. This will lower

a  drawbridge  for  you on Level 2. (Turning the wheel again will RAISE the

drawbridge again!). Exit right.



Follow  the  maps to the wooden figures panel. Walk in front of the statues

and  LOOK  GRAIL DIARY. Note the correct sequence from the LEFT page. Start

with  the RIGHT statue and PUSH STATUE until it matches the right figure in

the  diary.  Now go to the LEFT statue and PUSH STATUE until it matches the

left  figure  in  the diary. Finally, PUSH the centre STATUE and, if you've

got  it  right,  the  door  will now open. Go through the door and down the

steps to Level 2.



Follow  the maps and proceed to the drawbridge cavern. Cross the drawbridge

(which you lowered earlier) and exit the other side. Follow the maps to the

cavern  with  shelves  and exit left. Follow the maps again until you reach

the  musical  skulls  cavern  and wooden door, which leads down to Level 3.

Walk  up  to  the  skulls  and LOOK GRAIL DIARY. You will now see a musical

notation  set on one of the pages. Read the notes in the diary from LEFT to

RIGHT.  The  TOP  LINE  of  the  staff corresponds with the LEFT skull; The

SECOND  LINE  corresponds with the SECOND FROM THE LEFT skull, and so on. A

note  BELOW  the  staff, corresponds with the RIGHTMOST (SIXTH) skull. Note

the  order of pushing the skulls. It is a good idea to select PUSH from the

text  then  position  the  cursor  over the required skull and clicking, to

ensure  that  you  push  the  correct  one. After pushing the skulls in the

correct  sequence, the door on the right will now open, affording access to

Level 3.



Go  through  the door on the right and follow the Level 3 map to the Crypt.

Walk up to the casket and OPEN CASKET. LOOK CASKET..........Ta! Da!!....You

will  now  see  the body of a Knight!! The shield is the second marker that

Donovan    spoke    of.......it    mentions    the    ancient    city    of

Alexandretta......today,   the   city   of   Iskenderun  is  built  on  its

ruins.......we'll find the Grail near there.



Go RIGHT and you come to an iron grating. Position the cursor over the lock

mechanism and OPEN OLD RUSTY LOCK. Exit right through the pipe. You are now

back  under  the Piazza. Go up to the ladder and OPEN MANHOLE COVER then go

up.



Elsa  will  now rejoin you.....as will a wet Marcus! He tells you that your

Father  is being held captive in the Brunwald Castle on the Austrian-German

border  and  you  tell  him that the Grail is in Iskenderun. You arrange to

meet  in  Iskenderun  after  you've  rescued  your  Father.  You now travel

automatically to Castle Brunwald.



SECTION FOUR: CASTLE BRUNWALD

NOTE:  You  will  need  to  thoroughly  explore  the  Castle to familiarise

yourself with its layout, before attempting to solve all its problems!



On  arrival,  enter  the  Castle and bluff your way past the Butler to gain

more  points  than  if  you  fight.  To  save time, I have used a series of

numbers  corresponding  with  the  lines  of dialogue available, so for the

Butler, select choices 2, 1 and then 2. (2.1.2.). The Butler will now leave

the Castle.



Take  the  top  exit to the North Wing and locate the room with the Drunken

Guard  in  it.  Talk to the drunk and ask him every question except the one

accusing him of being drunk on duty. You should now be carrying his stein.



Exit  this  room and locate the Kitchen. Walk to the keg and fill the stein

with  ale  and then walk over to the fireplace and extinguish the hot coals

with  the  ale.  Wait a few moments for the steam to disperse then take the

roast boar and head for the Castle Entrance.



Walk  past  the  swastika  emblem  and enter the ground floor Hallway. Head

Southwards  where you will meet a Guard. Use the dialogue lines: 3.2.1 then

head  for  the  Laundry  Room. Here steal the Servant's uniform, then leave

this  room  and  walk towards the top of the screen in the direction of the

staircase.  Just  before  you  get to the stairs you will bump into another

Guard. Use the dialogue lines: 1.2.2. and ascend the stairs.



At the top of the stairs quickly nip into the first room on the right (LEFT

ON  SCREEN!).  Change into the Servant's uniform and leave the room, follow

the  corridor  down  the  screen  until  you  meet  another  Guard  at  the

T-Junction.  Offer  this  one  the  PAINTING and then move right across the

screen  and  along the corridor and up to the door on your left. Enter this

room  and  open the chest that you find there. Take the Uniform and examine

it  to  find  a  Small  Brass Key. Now return to the room at the top of the

stairs  -  where  you  last  changed  clothes  -  and change back into your

original Indy clothes.



Go  back  down  to  the Laundry room and you can now operate the key on the

lock  on  the  clothing rack. Take the Grey Uniform and go back upstairs to

your  'changing' room. Change into this uniform. Leave this room and follow

the  corridor around past the room where you found the last chest, and left

and  upwards  on your screen to the next door on your left. Enter this room

and use dialogue line: 3 with the Guard and leave.



Go up the screen and then right at the T-Junction and enter the room at the

extreme  right  end  of  this  next  corridor. Talk to this Guard using the

dialogue  lines: 2.2.3. Leave this room and walk to the extreme left end of

this  corridor  to  enter the Castle Security Centre. Here, offer the Guard

your  copy  of Mein Kampf - which you should have obtained from the Library

in Venice - and he will leave you alone here. It is possible to de-activate

the  security  system by pouring some ale through that grating, but for the

purposes  of  this  solution,  we're gonna get captured!! Now, simply leave

this room.



From  your  current screen position in the corridor, walk to the right then

down  the  screen,  then  across to the extreme right of your screen to the

base  of another staircase - DO NOT go upstairs just yet! Instead move down

the screen to meet yet another Guard. Talk to him using the dialogue lines:

3.1.2.1. then go into the room behind him and take the First Aid Kit. Leave

this room and go up the screen and ascend those stairs to the upper floor.



Here  you  will  meet another Guard where you should challenge him by using

the  dialogue  lines:  1.2.1. Vogul's Office is the FIRST door you see from

the  head  of  the  stairs so when you have dealt with the Guard, enter it.

Approach  the  dog  and  give  it  the  roast boar that you lifted from the

Kitchen.  Take  the  Trophy and the Pass from the filing cabinet, leave the

room  and  find your way back downstairs to the head of the lower staircase

where you changed your clothes earlier, enter the room and change back into

your Indy gear.



Now leave this room and go back to the Kitchen to fill your newly possessed

TROPHY  with  ale.  Go  back  to  your 'changing' room and change into your

uniform,  then  go  up to the Upper Floor. Proceed down past Vogul's Office

and  walk towards the left of the screen where you will bump into 'Biff the

Nazi'!!! Words mean little to this creep! Offer him your trophy full of ale

and he'll quickly swig it down before preparing himself to knock your block

off......however,  the  ale  will  affect his performance and, provided you

have  maintained  your  fitness,  one swift punch from you will send him to

tweety-land!!



Right,  just  one  more Guard to deal with. After dealing with Biff proceed

downwards  and  along  the  left  of the bottom corridor. When you meet the

Guard,  use  the  dialogue  lines: 3.2.3. Go back towards the right of your

screen,  then  up  to  the  top and left along the top corridor to the last

door.  Enter  this  to  locate  Henry!!  Pull  the  wires above the door to

activate  the alarm and you will both now be tied up downstairs in front of

a statue of armour.



[SAVE GAME HERE!!]



Saving  is particularly important here as you must be positioned EXACTLY in

order for the axe to cut through your bonds!



Pull the chair until your bonds are exactly in line with the axe above then

KICK  the armour and the axe will - hopefully - cut the ropes! Now PUSH the

statue  on  the  LEFT  of  the  Fireplace  and an opening will be revealed.

Proceed  through  this opening, take that convenient motorcycle combination

waiting outside and head for Berlin!



SECTION FIVE: BERLIN



NOTE:  There  are  several methods of completing this particular section so

what  follows  is  a  guide  as  to  the  order  of  business as opposed to

step-by-step instructions.



Arriving  at  Berlin  you  will  first  retrieve  the  Grail Diary from Dr.

Schneider.  Having turned around you will come face to face with the Fuhrer

himself.  Give  him  the  Pass and, thinking that you are a fan wanting his

autograph,  he  will  sign it. You now have a pass authorised by the Fuhrer

himself!



You  now  get back on your motorcycle for a tour of Nazi Germany! From time

to  time you'll be stopped by German sentries. Simply show them the pass in

order to continue. Eventually you should arrive at the Aerodrome.



Get  HENRY to ask the man with the newspaper about his grandchildren. While

they  are  engaged  in conversation, you should carefully rifle his pockets

and  steal  his  TICKETS. Now head outside to the waiting Zeppelin airship.

Climb  aboard  and  give  your  tickets to the Steward. Once the airship is

airborne send Henry to the left, towards the piano player. Get him to place

his coins in the pianist's bowl and ask when the Zeppelin is due to land.



Meanwhile,  the  craft's Radio Operator will hear music and leave his post.

You  must  quickly  duck  inside his cabin and OPEN the CABINET. Taking the

wrench you must then smash the Radio and then leave. (You may be confronted

by  the  Radio  Operator if you're not quick enough, in which case you will

have to fight!).



HINT...If  you  still  can't  do  the radio smashing in the time allocated,

simply  SWITCH  to  Henry  and ask him to request another song, then SWITCH

back again as the Operator leaves again! It is possible!!



Now,  insert  the  wrench into the hole near the Radio Operator's cabin and

TURN  it.  A Ladder will appear from the Roof and you should climb into the

Zeppelin's  upper  reaches. Avoiding the Guards you must negotiate the maze

of  catwalks  and  locate  the  exit at the bottom left. There is a biplane

below you here! Climb into the biplane.



FLYING HINTS.....Indy does the FLYING and Henry does the SHOOTING. The more

fighters  you  can shoot down, the farther out of Germany you will get, and

the  more  Checkpoints you will fly over. Eventually, if you shoot down all

the  enemy  planes  -  18 of them - then you will run out of fuel and crash

land!



There  is no SIMPLE winning strategy but the following may help: Always try

to start with your plane centred in the screen. The first time this is easy

because  you  automatically start here! Later, you'll find that you'll have

to hurry to reposition yourself after shooting down an enemy.



When  the  enemy  plane appears, watch the cross-hair move towards it. This

represents  Henry's  aiming  point  for  his  machine  gun. Just BEFORE the

cross-hair  and  the  enemy  plane  come together, hit the key to send your

biplane  AWAY from the enemy, in as near a straight line as you can manage.

This  will  often  result  in  Henry successfully shooting him down. If the

enemy  plane is still there when your plane reaches the edge of the screen,

move  your  plane  along  the  edge by making a right-angle turn, then back

towards the centre to try again.



If  the  enemy  first comes in from the LEFT side of the screen, wait until

the cross-hair is almost centred upon it then move YOUR plane to the RIGHT.

When your plane reaches the RIGHT edge, move it up or down until it reaches

the  corner  of  the  screen.  Then  move  DIAGONALLY  back  to the centre.

Remember....PRACTICE MAKES PERFECT!!



Eventually  you  and Henry will crash land.........how far you've travelled

will  depend on how many enemy planes you downed. Now take the BLUE car and

get   on   your   way   -  with  Henry  -  towards  Iskenderun.  Show  your

'Hitler-signed' pass at any Checkpoint to proceed.



SECTION SIX: ISKENDERUN



Upon  arrival  at the Temple, Donovan will take a shot at Henry! Proceed to

the  North  direction  to  face  your  first  test. You should refer to the

PRINTED  Grail  Diary that came with your game now. Page 56 shows a picture

of some rocks, a mechanism and a 'X'. The 'X' marks the spot in the graphic

that  you  have to walk to. Your character will automatically kneel when he

reaches  this  spot  on the screen. Now wait and you have passed your first

test - the Breath of God.



You  must now face your second test - the WORD of God. Here you must simply

step  ONLY  on  the  lettered  stones  that  are  in  the NAME OF GOD, i.e,

J-E-H-O-V-A.  This  name will be repeated as you cross. You can back up and

move  diagonally  as  long as you don't step on the WRONG letters! Once you

are safely across you will have completed your second test.



The  third and final test is the PATH of God. This is so simple it's almost

unreal!!  But  real  it is and just BELIEVE that it is possible and it will

be!!  As  soon  as the chasm screen appears quickly click on the RIGHT side

and  walk  straight  across........thin  air.......if you pause for thought

you'll blow it - have faith!



Having  completed  the  three  tests sucessfully you will now meet the last

remaining Knight who has been guarding the Grail for 700 years! He will ask

you to choose a Cup from many others that are on display along the wall.



If  you remember the inscriptions in the Catacombs of Venice which refer to

your  PRINTED Grail Diary  you will know whether the real Grail GLOWS. Pick

up the Grail that fits the CORRECT description. Now, use the Grail with the

Holy  Water.  This  will tell you if you have made the correct choice. With

the  correct  Grail  in your possession, return to the Temple's entrance to

help your father.



Meanwhile, Dr. Schneider will grab the cup and try to make good her escape.

As she does this, so the floor will open up and she'll fall with the Grail.

Well,  you  cannot  save  the  Doctor  but you DO have a chance to save the

Grail. You must quickly USE your WHIP on the GRAIL to save it.



You  can  leave now, but the noble thing to do is to give the Grail back to

the Knight to complete the game!!!



As I've hinted at throughout this solution, there are various OTHER ways of

tackling  some  of  the  puzzles  and more than one route to its successful

conclusion!.......Have fun finding out!!!



  * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

