                L E T   S L E E P I N G   G O D S   L I E 
                             (Empire Software)

During  this  adventure,  you  will  start  with  bare hands as weapons but
gradually  gain more powerful weapons and better ammo. You must also search
for  food  (berries on bushes, apple trees, carrots, mushrooms, swedes, etc
growing in small patches on the ground).

1. CAILA AND TAIRA
You  start in your home. Get the empty bowl, shuriken and 20 pebbles. Leave
through  the unlocked door (N Caila). Find the hermit there. He asks you to
find  his  map.  Travel  to  W  Marches  and get the back door key from the
molehill  and  the  pouch of renewal from near the two trees (the trees are
thirsty).  Go to S Caila. Avoid the mouse. Fill the bowl at the lake and go
through  the tree gate. Go to E Taira. Kill the bandit outside the bandit's
refuge. Get the map. Inside, get the bread (food), mouldy cheese and tunic.
You  can  now  pass  the  mouse as you have the cheese. Kill the hydra (use
sling and lead shot) and get the circlet. Go back to the hermit. Follow his
instructions. Go back to Taira and through the rock gate that has appeared.
Go to the tree to be transported to...

2. SYLVAR
Meet Prince Gregor who has lost his crown. In Northern Sylvar, get a useful
hint  from  the  molehill. Head towards one of the dwarves' houses and kill
the  dwarf here. Get the lantern. Enter the tunnels. Enter the eastern room
with  the  baby  spider  and get the rope. Go to the western room, kill the
dwarf  king and get his crown. You will need the rope to leave the tunnels.
Leave  through the NE entrance and find Gregor again. He gives you gold for
his  crown.  Go  back  into the tunnels, leave through the SW exit. Get the
belt  of  lung  capacity from the molehill. Travel to the clearing with the
fountain. It transports you to one of the islands of Delanda.

3. DELANDA
Shoot  the  seagulls  to  get  gold  coins. Go south by ferry to the larger
island.  Kill a druid to get a gold sickle. Read the message by the stones,
and  find  the  dying man to get a clue. Cut mistletoe from the tree in the
middle  and you can pass between the stones. In the land beyond the stones,
kill  enough  peasants  to  get  a  short  bow and a fair number of arrows.
Collect  the armband of strength from the molehill. Take the ferry south to
the  sandy  island  and  meet  Princess  Eloise  to  get  her message and a
bracelet.  Collect  the  lightfoot  sandals  from the centre of the island.
These  allow  you  to walk on water on some occasions. Walk east across the
water to the island of the well. Hear the message from the well and get the
vial.  Return  to the dying druid and collect his soul. Go back to the well
and you'll pass into it. You find yourself in blackness. Turn till you spot
something - some greaves. Get them and leave east to.....

4. SIMALA
To  find  warm clothing, head NE and you'll get warm boots from a molehill.
Leave  north  through  an icy mountain pass to the lowest plain. Leave east
again,  through  another  pass,  to  another  icy  plain.  To the east is a
bandit's hideout. Kill the bandit to gain a travelling cloak. Note the cave
is  sheltered  from the wind. Go back out and north (kill the snake) to the
highest, most icy plain. Get a useful message from the three Weird Sisters.
Get  the  wood  they leave. Return south to the lowest plain and go west to
another  cave.  Kill  the bandit and get his gloves. Meet the hermit inside
the  cave  to obtain a tinderbox and some advice. Go back to the other cave
where you light a fire, your head spins and you drift to....


5. MORAV
Listen  to advice from the three characters sitting by a fire and also from
a  nearby  molehill.  Enter  the  temple to the south and kill the sorcerer
inside  to gain a red robe. Go into the castle. Enter the room of paintings
and  examine  them  to  get a clue from one. Go to the music room. Kill the
guards  in there, get the chain mail and trumpet. Visit the dining room and
collect  the mug, plate and quiver of renewal. Go to the door of the throne
room  and  you'll  blow  the  trumpet  to unlock the door. Inside, kill the
guards  and  go  close  to  the  throne  to see a vision and be transported
to.....

6. SUNDERABAD
The  heat  is  bothering you so go west to the cave, kill the snake outside
and  get  the  shades  inside.  Back outside, meet Princess Lucia, Eloise's
sister,  to  get  some  advice  and  a  necklace. Look inside the northwest
pyramid  to  find  a  breastplate. Some of the priests, when killed, drop a
dagger.  Use  it  to  cut  certain cacti whose liquid restores some of your
strength.  Others  drop  a  rod  of  flame. Find the scarab in the northern
rockier  area, get her advice and do what she says - go to the oasis in the
southern  sandy  zone and to the Pyramid but don't worry if you take longer
than  half  an  hour!  Follow the scarab inside and learn about the Maze of
Light.  Go  through  the red door, in the next room through the red door to
the east, the same in the next room and you will find a yellow door to your
north.  Go  through  the yellow door (an alarm goes off), meet the archmage
and get the box when he vanishes to be transported to.....

7. ESTAMANE
Kill the sorcerer who attacks you and get the fireball wand. Get the candle
from  the  room  of  candles. In the room where the headless woman attacks,
kill  her  -  she  thanks you and leaves an amulet. Go to the room with the
Emperor  (E, N, N) - you won't see him unless you have the candle - and get
his  message.  Go  to  the  fountain  room  and  kill the sorcerer to get a
lightning  staff.  Find  Lucia  and  she follows you when you return to the
Emperor.  You'll  get  a  bottle,  helmet and some useful advice when Lucia
meets  her  father. Go back to the fountain and, as it instructs you, go to
the  Chamber  of  Lost  Souls.  When  the  fountain tells you to follow the
peasants, do so. Meet the three witches again and get their message to find
the  archmage down the east corridor. When you meet the archmage again down
there, attack him with the lightning staff. He vanishes. Get the scroll. It
is  covered  in  runes which you can't decipher. The room spins and you are
in......

8. THE CORATINIAN STATE
Leave  the  cave  and  kill  the dragon outside. Get the dragonskin and the
contents of its lair (coins, pellets, dragon spear) Go outside. Go near the
peasants  and heed their advice - do not pass into the central area yet. Go
to the western marshes, meet the hermit and hear his message. Follow him to
the molehill in the west and enter the mound that opens. Get the armour and
shield  and  learn what you have to do. Get the ring from the centre of the
plains  of  ash,  return  to  the  hermit  to  get cured. Follow him to the
southern  marshes  to  another molehill and listen to what he says. Through
the boulder gateway you meet the witches again and they tell you what to do
and  give  you  the history of the ring. Get the ring of total annihilation
that  they  leave and find the archmage in the northern marshes. Attack him
with  the  ring,  he  screams and vanishes. Return to the chamber where you
started  to  find  him again. Use the ring, he screams and disappears and a
hole  opens  in  the  wall.  Go  through and down the corridor to the door.
Destroy  the  guardian.  The archmage reappears behind you. Use the ring on
him  again  and  he vanishes. Enter the room, it's empty and the door shuts
behind  you. You feel the room descend. The door opens. Go through into the
next room which is also empty. The device given to you by the kobold starts
to  vibrate  and glow softly. You hear a hum as the other room returns. The
archmage  enters  through the door but seems frozen to the spot. The device
burns  your  hand  and  you drop it. Something happens to the archmage. His
voice is changed. It's N'Gnir returned to restore the land while you take a
well-earned rest!! Game complete!

  * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
