                               M U T A N T 
                            (River Adventures)


The  aim  of the game is to destroy the Mutant by enticing it from its cave
by  dropping a fish from above the cave entrance. Then whilst the Mutant is
enjoying his find, jack a boulder down and kill it.

At the start open the bonnet to reveal a battery with a loose lead. Fitting
or  connecting  the lead will cause a spark. Inside the car is an oily rag,
light  this  by the above method but be advised that the rag will only burn
for  a  short  time.  Examining  the  seats  will bring a map and a pair of
stockings  to  light.  The map plays no part in the adventure, but wear the
stockings.

Go  down to the lake and examine it. Examine the reeds and examine the egg.
A  little way to the West is an Alligator. If you examine him you will note
that  crocodile eggs are a favourite food. Get the egg and a crocodile will
emerge  from the lake. Go to the west to the Alligator and drop the egg, in
the ensuing scramble both creatures will disappear into the swamp.

Climb  the tree to find a vine and a hornet's nest. Down and West takes you
into  the  gorse  where some wild Boars are feeding. Stay too long and they
will  eat  you instead of the gorse! However, if you throw the nest at them
they will disperse, you are still restricted in your movements in the gorse
but be patient and a grateful bird will show you the way later on.

Go  East  as far as possible, picking up and examining the reed on the way.
At the pool examine the pool and get some snails. If you drop them you will
have to come back for some more. Now go back to the Landrover and light the
oily  rag as previously described. Go west to the cave and go in. You can't
enter  the  water  unless you have the reed in your mouth and you must also
drop  the  oily  rag.  Now go in and West to a skeleton. It is advisable to
remove  the  reed at this point because you have a certain number of moves,
and if you happen to be in the water you will drown.

Examine  the skeleton to find a wad of chewing tobacco, examine it, chew it
and get it. Read the diary - not important. Put reed in mouth and go in and
East. You can leave the rag as you will not need it anymore and in any case
it  will soon go out. Once outside the cave go east as far as possible to a
fallen  tree,  climb  over  tree to find some climbing boots, wear them and
climb  back  over  the  tree,  West and down. Go in to the hide and get the
book, examine it and you're none the wiser!!

Go  out,  down  and then North to some fallen rocks, climb the rocks and go
North  to  a tree stump. You can tie the vine to the stump and then go down
but this is not necessary as Down will take you down also. Don't forget the
vine, you will need it later on. At the elephant grass, examine it and then
jump. Follow route each time until you are clear.

At  the  waterhole drop the book and go East and North until you find a log
cabin.  Examine  the bath, it has a plug hole in it. Plug hole with wad. Up
onto  the  roof  and  tie  vine, climb down vine into cabin. Lift the table
upright,  get  the shoes and then climb on the table, up and then down. Get
the bath and make your way back to the waterhole.

Launch  the  bath  and put on the shoes. Go South and West until you find a
spade.  Back to the waterhole. Now put on the boots and drop the snowshoes.
Go  in  the  bath  and paddle to the island, out and examine the bird (make
sure  that you have the book), so now you know what it eats, feed the bird!
It flies off to its feeding grounds and you know where that is!!

Back  to  the waterhole. West and North is a cave, in the cave is a pile of
earth  barring  the  route  West.  Bring both the bath and the spade to the
cave.  With  the  bath  on  the floor fill bath again and again until it is
full.  Drag it outside and empty it. Take it back in and repeat the process
twice  more. Once all the earth has gone you can proceed West and South and
out  of the little cave system. If you do not empty the final full bath you
will lose some points.

Once  outside  go  East  and then up the mountain until you are outside the
Mutant's  Cave.  Do  NOT go in! Get the bone you see and examine it. Now go
down  and  East to Slippery Moss and dig where you see some tiny holes. You
now have a fat worm.

Proceed  to  the  pool where you will find the bird feeding. As soon as you
appear  it  will  fly  away  West. Go West with the bird until you find its
nest. Examine the nest to find a piece of twine. You are now ready to catch
a  fish.  Tie  twine  to  bone, place worm on bone. Go to the lake and CAST
BAIT.  With the fish and the jack (LOOK UNDER CAR) go to the location above
the  Mutant's  Cave,  drop the fish and, when the Mutant comes out to feed,
jack a boulder down and kill it.

Return  to  the  cave  entrance and get the paper. Read it then go into the
cave. Get and wear the medal...............GAME OVER!!


  * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
