                             U L T I M A   V 
                           (Warriors Of Destiny)
                             (Origin Systems)

                (Information compiled by John R. Barnsley)

The  steps  necessary  for  solving this quest are provided here in summary
form.  To accomplish them, you can either talk to people for clues, consult
the  "TOWNES,  KEEPS  &  CASTLES"  section  for  hints,  or  look  in other
appropriate  sections  (such as "VANQUISHING THE SHADOWLORDS") or check the
TABLES for the EXACT answers.

The  cluster of locations around Britanny Bay is probably the best place to
start.  Talk  to  everyone  you  meet  for  clues.  Go  out  at  night  for
monster-hunting,  but  not far from the towns - retreat to a town if you're
in danger of getting killed. Look for Mantras and Words of Power. When your
group  attains third or fourth level, explore dungeons for loot. Buy ships,
get  a grapple, sextant, Black Badge, Spy-Glass, lots of Skull Keys and the
Magic Carpet. Stock up on Mandrake Root, Nightshade and other reagents. Use
the Black Badge and get the Crown and Word Of Power from the prisoner.

While  seeking one of the Shards, get the Mystic Armour. Get all the Shards
and names of the Shadowlords. Learn what to do with the Shards. Destroy the
Shadowlords  and  find their Keep. Get the Sceptre and Amulet. Complete all
the  Shrine Quests if you haven't already. Get the Sandalwood Box and stock
up on supplies. Rescue Lord British.

CHARACTER CREATION AND DEVELOPMENT
The  keys  to  character development lie in the Shrines and in living up to
the  virtues.  Don't  take  food or crops, kill innocent people or do other
'unAvatarish'  acts  that  will  cost  you  points  in a related Virtue and
inhibit  some  characters  from giving you clues. To boost Compassion, give
one  piece  of  gold  to  Beggars. Never lie or boast (say no when asked if
you're  proud  of  something,  unless asked if you are the most humble). To
boost  Karma,  complete a Shrine Quest, then return to that Shrine and give
gold.  People who will join the party are mentioned in the "TOWNES, CASTLES
&  KEEPS"  section  and  in  the TABLES. Release prisoners in Blackthorn or
Yew.

COMBAT & MAGIC
Slings and Bows will serve you well until you get Magic Axes. You can equip
with  more than one weapon, such as a Magic Axe and a Short Sword. A Bow is
good  until  you get a Magic Axe. Don't forget you can fire missile weapons
diagonally  this time. Use them until the enemy is within arm's reach. Step
back  as  the  enemy approaches, and they'll move into better positions for
you  to  hit  them. Line your team up in a pair of columns, keeping missile
weapons and Mages in the back.

GENERAL INFORMATION
You  will  be able to reach most places by foot, horse or Magic Carpet. The
In  Por spell and the Grapple are essential for travelling, especially when
seeking  the  Shards.  The  exceptions  will  require  a  ship or travel by
Moongates.  Avoid  entering  a  location when Shadowlords are present. (You
will  get  an audible warning; also, the trees will be bare of foiliage and
the  inhabitants  will  be  reluctant  to  converse  with  you.  By using a
telescope  at  night,  you  can  see the location of the Shadowlords). Some
locations have locked doors or moats preventing entry during the night. You
may  have  to wait until daylight, cross moats on the Magic Carpet, or find
secret  entrances. Inhabitants follow certain routines and will sleep, open
or  close  shops, have lunch and so on only during certain hours. Generally
it  is  best  to  "hole  up"  outside until morning. This also gives you an
opportunity  to  revitalize  spell points, heal and sometimes be visited by
Lord British, who may reward you or caution you to follow a certain path to
meet your goals.

Barkeeps will give you useful clues for a price. If short of cash, save the
game  before  you  bribe a Barkeep; get the information, then restore game.
This may not seem 'Avatarish', but in the early stages of the adventure you
must  be  prudent  at times! Secret doors are marked with white dots in the
walls,  but these are sometimes hard to see. A ship is needed to reach some
places;  consult  the  map  before setting out for a new location to see if
this is the case.

                          TOWNES, CASTLES & KEEPS

LORD BRITISH'S CASTLE
This  castle  has  five  levels: four above ground and one below. Like most
locations,  it  can be plotted on a 32 x 32 grid. On the Ground Level (near
the  stable),  talk  to  Treanna. You may find items by searching the level
below,  where  you  will  find  an  Armoury  and  items  to be picked up by
searching  (but DON'T fight any Guards here!). And don't take anything from
the  locked room down there, since it belongs to Lord British. On one level
above  you  may find an "orb" with which you may view the floor the way you
would with a gem.

On  the  second  level  above  you will find Lord British's quarters (use a
Skull  Key  to  enter,  or  blow the door off with a cannon). Here lies the
Magic  Carpet  at the entrance and a secret door that opens if you play the
harpsichord.  The secret door permits you to obtain the Sandalwood Box. (DO
NOT  SAVE  THE GAME HERE!!). You may also meet Saduj, who may offer to join
you. (DON'T let him - he may cause you to lose the Sandalwood Box). In this
room you can also go through the fireplace to a secret place. Going through
fireplaces  costs  you hit points so be sure you can take a few hits coming
and  going. The stairway in Lord British's quarters leads to an Observatory
with a telescope. Don't go to the roof unless you have Skull Keys.

BRITTAIN
The  Towne  of  Compassion  has  an  Inn and an Armoury. There are sleeping
quarters, terrace and a balcony on the upper floors. Talk to Anon, Greyson,
Terrance and Guenno.

EAST BRITTANY
Here  there  is  a  Healer  and a Shipwright. Plans for the HMS Cape, which
permit  faster  sailing  aboard  frigates, are in one of the drawers in the
Shipwright's Quarters.

NORTH BRITTANY
There  is  an  Inn,  a  Stable  and  a  small garden. A little north of the
entrance is a tree stump with three gems. Talk to Joshua and Leof.

WEST BRITTANY
Here  you  will find two gardens, a Tavern and a Graveyard. The gravestones
have  humorous  epitaphs  if  you  have the patience to decipher them. Some
graves yield corpses and loot if searched.

BLACKTHORN'S PALACE
Located  on  an  island west of the southern tip of the Isle of the Avatar,
the  palace  is  surrounded  by a moat. You must be equipped with the Magic
Carpet  to  avoid  some  of the trap doors inside. Hug the walls when going
through  the  palace, because the traps are normally centered away from the
walls.  If  captured  by  guards  you will be taken to Blackthorn, asked to
reveal  the  Mantra of a Shrine and whether you do or don't, the second man
in  your  party will be tortured and killed. It is best to avoid detection.
There are three levels above and a basement level from the ground floor. On
the  top  level  in  the centre of the grid you will find the Crown of Lord
British.  When worn, it protects you from magic spells. You can avoid being
captured  by  knowing the password and wearing the Black Badge. If captured
after  obtaining  the Crown, you can escape in the following manner: In the
dead  of  night,  go to the down ladder at the northern central part of the
Top  Level. Go down to the bedroom and south to the wall and search for the
secret  door.  Take  the  down  ladder  on the other side of the door, then
search  north  for  another  secret door. Take the down ladder on the other
side  of  the  door  and  you  will be on the Main Level. Go directly north
through  the  triple  doors,  and  the  Magic  Carpet will get you over the
stream.

BORDERMARCH
On  the Upper Level, you will meet Dupre and Sentri, a pair of Fighters you
should  chat  up.  Talk to Sir Simon and Tessa for valuable information; an
Armoury is available.

BUCCANEER'S DEN
This location has a Guild, Armoury, an Inn, a Tavern and a Shipwright. Talk
to  Scally.  You  meet  Geoffrey, an old friend who wants to join you. Sven
gives  a clue on where to obtain a glass sword. (It's a powerful weapon but
disintegrates when used, so it may not be worth searching for). You can get
information on a grapple for a drink for a woman.

COVE
Cove  is  southeast  of  Locklake  and  may  be reached from there. You may
purchase  reagents  and obtain healing here. Speak to the Sisters of Virtue
about  Tibse. Ambrose (around midnight at the Healers) will speak to you of
the Mystic Arms.

HUT IN DESERT
Talk to Sin'Vraal for the name of a Shadowlord.

EMPATH ABBEY
There  are  three levels: the first has a Healer, the second a balcony with
the  Flame  of  Love. Toshi, a student will offer to join you. Talk to Tim.
Converse with Lord Michael (and say 'grapple'). Cory will give free food if
you  ask  for 'squid' or 'shark'. Julia offers to join you. The third level
is just a walk around the perimeter where you may find Tim at times.

FARTHING
In  Farthing  you may learn a spell from Temme and get a spyglass from Lord
Seggallion if you answer "VIRTUE". Talk to Quintin.

FOGSBANE
This  is  the  lighthouse on the island just south of Brittain. Jotham will
speak of the Underworld.

GREYHAVEN
This  lighthouse is on a peninsula South of Trinsic. Here you will find Sir
Arbuthnot,  the  royal  coinmaker. David the Keeper will provide you with a
sextant  when you ask about it. Talk to Lord Kenneth, who will teach you to
play  the harpsichord. Be sure to search, for you will find five gems, 50GP
and a blue potion.

HUT ON ISLAND AT NA LA
Just  a  small  hut  and a graveyard occupy this small island. At 9:00am, a
young  mage,  Sutek,  arises  and  reveals  the  secret  of  destroying the
Shadowlords. Check out the small graveyard for messages.

JHELOM
There  are  two  levels, the second consisting mainly of sleeping quarters.
The  first level has an Inn, a Tavern, an Armoury and a Shipwright. You may
obtain  a  magic axe outside the walls to the East, but must first find the
secret  door in the Northeast section on the main level. Talk to Thorne and
the bewildered Mage who speaks and responds to "backward" words. (Ask for a
"Word  of  Power",  but  spell  it  backwards  -  "Drow of Rewop", then say
"Dratsed"). Searching will net you food, torches and a scroll.

THE LYCAEUM
This  Keep  houses  the  Flame  of Truth and has three levels. On the first
level  is  a  stable.  She  also  tells how to find a Shrine. On the second
level,  talk  to  Mariah  in  the  Healer's Room during the day. There is a
Library  and  a  Tavern. Talk to Lady Janell, Rollo and Lord Shalineth. The
third  level has a Healer and the Flame of Truth. Sir Sean will explain how
to get to Stonegate, the fortress of the Shadowlords. Search for items.

MINOC
Some buildings on Minoc have second levels with sleeping quarters and items
if  you search for them. The ground level has a Healer (who does not charge
for  her  services), a Shipwright and an Armoury. Follow Shenstone at noon.
He  leads  you to a place where you can find keys. Rew reveals a Mantra and
more useful information. Talk to Tactus, Fenelon and Fiona.

MOONGLOW
The towne of Honesty has second levels where you can search for items, plus
a  telescope.  The  ground  level has many items, an orb for viewing, and a
shop  selling reagents. You may also purchase rations here. Talk to the man
in the tower. Malifora knows a Word of Power and a Mantra.

NEW MAGENCIA
Ron Wartow has a Mantra. Katrina will offer to join you. Talk to Kaiko.

PAWS
The  gates  to  Paws  are  closed  at night. You will find a Guild, Inn and
Tavern.  Glinkie  tells  how to find a Shrine. Talk to Bandaii (if you know
where  to  find  the  talking  horse).  Stables  hold a clue to the wishing
wells.

SERPENT'S HOLD
The gates open at 5:00am at this Bastion of Courage. Here you will find the
Flame  of  Courage. An upper level has a large dining room. Kristi the cook
will  sell  you  five  Skull Keys. Talk to Lord Malone, Monsieur Loubet and
Gardner. Maxwell, a sleek Fighter, offers to join. A sub-level in Serpent's
Hold contains the Flame of Courage. If you fall down a trap-door and appear
to be closed in, search for secret doors.

SKARA BRAE
The towne of Spirituality has a drawbridge that is raised at midnight. Here
you  will find an Inn, a Healer and a Shop selling reagents. Kindor reveals
a Mantra. Talk to Saul about Mandrake and Nightshade. A wizard on the upper
floor of the centre building (after you defeat the bats) will answer to the
word  "OPPRESSION".  If  you  provide  him  with a name he will send you to
Windmere  to  see Elistaria and give you the password. Find and talk to the
child in town, son of a prisoner in Yew.

STONEGATE
See the paragraph on the SHADOWLORDS & THE SCEPTRE.

STORMCROW
A  lighthouse  located  Southwest  of  Minoc, this has three levels and two
inhabitants. Information is scarce, but try anyway.

TRINSIC
On  the  upper  level  you  will  find sleepwalkers. Sindar gives a Word of
Power. There is a Stable, a Healer and an Armoury.

WAVEGUIDE
A  three-level  lighthouse  off the West coast of Verity Isle, this may not
yield any information.

WINDMERE
Elistaria,  in response to "IMPERA", gives you a badge that, if worn, helps
you  in  Blackthorn's  Palace.  She  also  says Thrud will provide you with
jewelled weapons for the resistance password.

YEW
The towne of Justice closes it's gates at night. Search the cemetery graves
for  items.  There is a Tavern, an Armoury and a Reagent shop on the ground
level  and  quarters  on the lower level. Janna will offer to join you. Ask
Landon  about  the  Crown.  To reach the lower level, go through one of the
fireplaces.  Chamfort  will tell you of resistance and a Mantra. If jailed,
you will be taken to the cells behind Judge Dryden's office and should talk
with  Jerome. In another cell you will meet Felespar. Give him the password
of  the resistance, and he'll give you a Word of Power. Ask Judge Dryden of
the  oppression.  Tell  him  Tactus  of Minoc sent you. Tell Greymarch that
Froed is well, and he tells of the Sceptre.

                        VANQUISHING THE SHADOWLORDS

You  may  be able to defeat the Shadowlords in battle, but they will return
unless  you  get rid of them permanently. To accomplish this you must first
learn  their  names,  obtain  the Shards of Cowardice, Falsehood and Hatred
from  the  Underworld,  and  finally destroy them at the Flames of Courage,
Truth  and  Love.  At  the  flames you must yell their names and, when they
stand in the flames, use the Shards to destroy them. The Lords of the three
locations  of  the  Flames will reveal to you the names of the Shadowlords.
Use  each Shard in the Flame of the opposite alignment. The Shadowlord must
be  standing  on  or  in  the  Flame,  positioned so he's due North of your
character and his icon is covering the Flame's icon.

THE SCEPTRE
Do  not  attempt  to  acquire  the  Sceptre  until  you have eliminated the
Shadowlords.  Stonegate,  the  Shadowlord's  fortress, is located at EK JE.
Just North of the Sceptre is a trap-door that leads to certain death; equip
the  Magic  Carpet before entering. A leather-winged abomination guards the
entrance.  The  answer  to  his  riddle  is  "WELL"  but even if you answer
correctly, he will still attack you.

                           OBTAINING THE SHARDS

The Shards are located in the Underworld, which may be reached by dungeons.
Be equipped with the Magic Carpet. The Shard of Hatred is reached by either
dungeon  Wrong or Covetous. Falsehood is reached from Deceit, and Cowardice
from Hythloth. The In Por spell (Blink) and the Grapple are needed for this
phase.

SHARD OF HATRED
To  descend  in Wrong: Yell the Word of Power at the entrance. At the exit,
head  South into a room. Kill off monsters, then descend to Level 2 via the
ladder  in  the  middle  of  the room. Move South SIX times, then West FIVE
times  to  the  ladder  leading Down. (Watch out for the pit trap and force
field).

Descend  to  Level  4,  then go South SIX times and take the ladder Down to
Level  5, where you may heal at the fountain by going through a secret door
North of you, then go West ONCE and North TWICE.

The  other  fountain, TWO spaces East, is poisonous! From where you entered
Level  5,  head South TWICE then follow along either East or West until you
reach  a  chance to go Down, making sure to destroy electric fields in your
way (use An Grav spell or the Sceptre), then descend to Level 6.

Wear  the  crown  (to ward off Wisps as you enter Level 8). On Level 6 move
East  (or  West) TWICE, then North TWICE and descend to Level 8. On Level 8
move  North  TWICE,  East ONCE, then face North to reveal a secret door. Go
through  the secret door and West THREE spaces to a healing fountain. Going
East  all the way, then South all the way will bring you to the exit to the
Underworld. Be prepared for battles, electric fields and bomb traps.

In the Underworld, go South on the path to the fork, then go East on it for
a  short while before heading South again. At the next fork, move South. At
the  next  fork,  go  West and look for a gap in the High Mountains to your
East.  Find it and begin climbing East, following the path of low mountains
between the High peaks. View the gem and you'll see a glen in the middle of
some mountains; this is the Shard. Keep climbing until you reach it.

SHARD OF FALSEHOOD
To descend in Deceit: At the entrance yell the Word of Power. From the exit
of  the dungeon, go North through a secret door to the ladder leading Down,
then descend to find a healing fountain (you'll neeed it after battling the
Daemons on the next level). Go due South down a hallway and take the ladder
Down to Level 3.

You're  now  in  a room filled with Daemons, where a force field blocks the
middle  of  the room (dispell it). Take the ladder Down at the other end of
the  room to Level 4. Climb Down again to Level 5. Go West THREE times from
the  ladder,  then  due  South and take the ladder Down to Level 6. Go West
ONCE  and  search for the pit trap (in the middle of an intersection). Find
it,  step  on  the spot where it is and go North to take the ladder Down to
Level 7.

Go  West into the room and exit it to the North. Go North to the wall, East
ONCE, North TWICE to a ladder Down to Level 8. Go South FOUR times from the
ladder  to  the  intersection,  move  East TWICE, then face South. Go South
through  two rooms (behind some pillars in here are some Dragons, which can
be  killed  -  but you can't get their treasure; also watch for a trip that
releases some monsters).

Now  enter  the  next room South to the room with 5 Black Squares in a wall
(in  the  middle  of  the room) and a ladder Down on the other side. Take a
Torch in the upper right-hand corner, walk into the space formerly occupied
by  the  torch  and  push on the East wall there. (On the way out, however,
push  the  WEST  wall  in  the LOWER LEFT-HAND CORNER!). This allows you to
access  the  first  block,  where you'll defeat a monster. Push on the West
wall there to open a block to the East. Defeat the monster, enter the block
he  occupied  and push the East wall. That opens a wall to your West, where
you  enter another block with a monster. Kill him, enter his space and push
the West wall. That exposes the block furthest to the East and releases the
Dragon. (Try to use Morningstars or spells on him before you release him).

Go  all  the way Down to the space he occupied and push the East wall. That
releases  the  other  Dragon. Kill him, then go East ONCE from the space he
occupied  and  push  the  South  wall  to open a wall so you can access the
ladder Down on the other side (but on the way out, push NORTH, not SOUTH!).
Take  the  ladder to the Underworld. (On the way back out, push on the WEST
wall  in  the  LOWER  LEFT-HAND  corner  to  open the wall. Then follow the
previous directions, except in the previously noted exceptions).

In the Underworld: You begin at (5) on the provided map). Go Southwest over
lots  of mountaintops until you reach some large caves. Then head Southwest
to  a  major intersection, where you turn Northwest and go Northeast at the
branch.  Go  North  a  long way, until the path switches West, through some
rocky  hills to the Southwest and finally you will come to a lake. Look for
the  river  that  flows  South. Jump on the Carpet and take a ride down the
rapids to find the Shard on a small island.

SHARD OF COWARDICE
To descend in Hythloth: From the exit, descend to Level 7. On Level 7, move
South  TWICE (through a secret door), West ONCE and UP to Level 6. On Level
6  move  West  TWICE and Down to Level 7. On Level 7 move South TWICE, East
ONCE,  South  TWICE, then East FOUR TIMES through a secret door. On Level 8
move  West  THREE TIMES to the Underworld exit. (Mystic Arms are found near
the Underworld Exit in Hythloth).

In  the  Underworld: Carry lots of gems. Go to a clearing due South (as far
as  you  can  go  on  foot). "BLINK" into the clearing to the West, then go
Northwest  as far as you can walk and view a gem. "BLINK" into the clearing
to  the North. Then go North and "BLINK" over more mountains. Move West and
"BLINK"  across  more mountains. Go North and "BLINK" again. Head Northwest
to the clearing, where you'll find the Shard.

THE AMULET
The  Amulet  is  located in the Underworld (go through the dungeon Destard,
then  Southwest, using the Magic Carpet to avoid the poisonous area), among
the Graves of Valiant Warriors (near OE GJ). (See Underworld Map).

To Descend Dungeon Destard:
You  don't  HAVE  to  enter through the dungeon: just follow the journal of
Lord  British's  last  trip  in the manual. But you should exit through the
dungeon by reversing these directions.

Yell the Word of Power.

From  Level  1, head: S - S - E - E - E - E - S - S - E - E - E - E - S - S
then descend to Level 2.

From  Level  2,  head:  S  - S - E - E - E - E - S - S - E - E then descend
(through Level 3) to Level 4.

On  Level  4, head: N - N into a room and fight off the monsters. Then take
the grate down to Level 5.

On Level 5, head: S - S - E - E then descend to Level 7.

On  Level  7,  head: N then E into a room and exit N - N - W - N - N into a
room, then descend through the grate to Level 8 (after a battle!).

On Level 8, you may DES POR to The Underworld or travel to the exit. Either
way,  you  will  have to fight your way through two rooms when you re-enter
the Dungeon. The exit to the Underworld (from the ladder) is: S - S - S - S
-  S  - S - W - W - S - S - W - W - S - S - S to a room entrance and enter.
(Demons and Wisps are in here).

When  exiting from this room, take North, East or West exit if going to the
surface. If headed for the Underworld, go South, use any weapon and hit the
torch  in  the middle to open the South exit and turn that half of the room
into  a lava field. (You'll need a high-level party to survive this and the
next  room).  Then  exit  South  and  move  South  to  the  ladder  to  the
Underworld.

                      DUNGEON DOOM: THE FINAL QUEST!!

Here  you  will finally meet rescue Lord British. The dungeon is located at
the  exact  centre  of  the Underworld and is reached by descending through
Dungeon  Shame.  Use  the  Amulet to get through the dark area to Doom. You
must  have  the Crown, Sceptre, Amulet and Word of Power for Doom. You also
need the Sandalwood Box.

To Descend Dungeon Shame:
Yell  the  Word  of  Power.  At  first  you  appear to be locked in, but by
attacking  rocks  on the Southern edge of the level with magic axes, you'll
eventually reveal a Southern exit.

Go  through  the  exit  and take the first corridor on your left. Follow it
around  to  the descent to Level 7. A sign will inform you that this is the
"deepest" level.

On Level 7, go: S - S - S - S then descend to Level 8.

On  Level 8, go: W then DES POR to the Underworld. The exit, if you care to
find  it, is (from your entrance on Level 8): W - W - S - W - S - S - E - E
- E through a secret door.

To  find Doom, travel East as far as you can go, then "BLINK" to the Grassy
Plain. Cross the water on the Magic Carpet.

You must have already killed all the Shadowlords before entering Doom. Also
required  are  the  Crown,  Sceptre  and Sandalwood Box. UP and DOWN Spells
cannot  be  cast  here,  so  you can only exit by saving Lord British or by
being  killed. Rings of Invisibility don't work well here. It helps to wear
the Crown.

Dungeon Doom
Level One
Exit  the  room at (a) by walking up to the edge of the West wall and using
the Sceptre, which clears out the walls. Follow the hall to the ladder down
at (b).

Level Two
From (c), walk to (d) and take the ladder down.

Level Three
From  (e), go due East through the secret door and East to the room at (f),
where you can go down.

Level Four
You  emerge  from Level Three at (g), but continue down the ladder to Level
Five.

Level Five and Four
You  emerge  at (h) and go East, then climb up the pit at (i). You'll be at
the  top of the '+' sign-shaped area (j) on Level Four. Go South and search
for  the  pit  (k).  Climb  down  the  pit,  and you'll be in the East/West
corridor on Level Five.

If  you  look  at  a  gem,  this area looks like a giant grid, with endless
hallways  in  each  direction.  Right now you are in between intersections.
(You're about to get bounced around between levels a few times here). There
are  pits  going  up at the intersection in this area. Go east to the first
intersection,  turn  North  and  take  the  first  pit that goes up between
intersections  (this  is NOT shown on the maps). You should come out at (m)
on Level Four.

search  for  the pit at (l) in the area's Southwest corner, which takes you
to  a  ladder that goes down through Level Five and drops you off at (n) on
Level Six.

Level Six
Go West from (n) to the room at the junction, then move North to the ladder
and go down.

Level Seven
From  (o),  go North to the room in the middle of the hall. Don't just pass
through. You must slay all monsters in the room. A Fear Spell - followed by
a  Tremor  or  something like that - does wonders here. Be SURE to wear the
Crown  here.  After  wiping out the fiends, collect all their stuff. From a
sandtrap  in the centre of the room, you'll find a chest. Open it, take out
everything,  and a ladder appears under the chest. Go down this ladder. (If
you've taken extensive damage, leave the room and heal first).

Level Eight
You  emerge  in a room (p) divided by a river. Kill off the Dragons and Sea
Serpents  (a Fear Spell works well here, too). To cross the river, you must
activate a trip mechanism in the upper left corner of the room. Use a magic
axe,  spears  or a throwing axe and hit the wall in that section. It's left
of  the  two  waterfalls. When you hit it, the bridge is lowered so you can
cross  the  river.  This also releases some monsters, but you can just race
across  the bridge if you don't want to fight it out. Go West and climb the
ladder to (q) on Level Seven.

Level Seven
In  the room at (q), you want to go South but there is no exit. So wipe out
the  monsters  and  push  on  the wall near the grate to activate the trip,
which  exposes  a section of wall to the North. From where the grate is, go
to the section of wall just revealed and push on it, which opens an exit to
the  South. After going South, search for a trap at the end of the hallway.
This pit trap takes you down to (r) on Level Eight.

Level Eight
Go West from (r) and climb up the ladder to (s) on Level Seven.

Level Seven
From  (s),  go West and South, searching for the pit trap on the corner. Go
around this one, search again and take the next pit trap (t) down to (u) on
Level Eight. (Be sure you're wearing the Crown before going down the pit).

Level Eight
On the island (u), first wipe out all the monsters. Choose one character to
go  to  the Northern section of the room, which appears to contain an exit.
After  the  exit seals itself off, someone should push around on the little
niche  up  in the walls of the room's Northeast corner. There's a trip that
opens an exit to the East. Go East to (v) and climb up the ladder to (w) on
Level Seven.

Level Seven
In (w) is a giant brazier. Do not hit or push the brazier (unless you enjoy
being engulfed in hot lava!). To deal with the Daemons on the other side of
the barrier, use the Sceptre to chew it away. (If you're wearing the Crown,
the  Daemons  can't harm you). Then walk through and bash the monsters. (Or
you can stand near the wall and attack them with a Morningstar, though this
would take a long time). Exit to the East, but search before you get to the
end  of  the hallway to avoid falling into a trap. After searching, you can
go down the pit to (x) on Level Eight.

Level Eight: FREE AT LAST!!!
This  room  (x) has no exits. Walk up to the mirror. (Hopefully you brought
the Sandalwood Box!).

  * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

                          POTENTIAL PARTY MEMBERS

     Lord British's Castle..............Saduj (don't let him join!)
     Brittain...........................Guenno
     Bordermarch........................Dupre and Sentri
     Buccaneer's Den....................Geoffrey
     Empath Abbey.......................Julia and Toshi
     Lycaeum............................Mariah
     New Magencia.......................Katrina
     Serpent's Hold.....................Maxwell
     Yew................................Jana
     Ararat.............................Captain John

                                 DUNGEONS

    Name             Location        Words of Power
   Covetous              BL JM              AVIDUS
   Deceit                EJ PA              FALLAX
   Destard               KI EI              INOPIA
   Despise               ED FL              VILIS
   Wrong                 BE HO              MALUL
   Hythloth              PA OP              IGNAVUS
   Shame                 GG DK              INFAMA
   Doom                  HA HA*             VERAMOCOR

                          THE SHADOWLORD'S NAMES

   Falsehood.....................FAULINEI
   Cowardice.....................NOSFENTOR
   Hatred........................ASTAROTH

                  LOCATIONS OF SHARDS (in the Underworld)

   Falsehood.....................FA MA
   Cowardice.....................LA LI
   Hatred........................EB IC

                            LOCATIONS OF FLAMES

   Truth.........................LYCAEUM
   Courage.......................SERPENT'S HOLD
   Love..........................EMPATH ABBEY

                       MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS & PLACES

   Spyglass......................Farthing (Lord Segallion)
   Badge.........................Windemere (Elistaria)
   Jewelled Sword/Shield.........Windemere (Thrud)
   Magic Carpet..................Lord British's Chambers
   Sin'Vraal's Hut...............DA, MJ
   Sandalwood Box................Lord British's Chambers (behind
                                 secret door, after playing
                                 harpsichord)
   Talking Horse.................Iola's barn (NA LA)
   HMS Cape plans................East Brittany
   Stonegate.....................EK JE
   Blackthorn's Castle...........Isle of Avatar, southern tip
   Harp lessons..................Greyhaven (Lord Kenneth)
   Crown.........................Lord British's castle, top level
   Sutek.........................Marshe Island in middle of ocean
   Grapple.......................Empath Abbey (Lord Michael)
   Sextant.......................Greyhaven (David)
   Sceptre.......................Stonegate
   Skull Keys....................Serpent's Hold (Kristi), Minoc
                                 (can get 5 a day from NW tree)
   Nightshade....................JF CO (Midnight only)
   Mandrake Root.................DG LG (Midnight only)
   Glass Sword...................FA EA
   Amulet........................OE GD (Underworld)
   Mystic Arms...................OL NF (Underworld: from Hythloth
                                 in lava, North across peaks)
   Ararat (Ark)*.................CJ CC (Underworld)

   * Ararat is the only place in the Underworld that has an occupant.
     The person there will join you and is useful because he casts
     fairly high level spells.

PASSWORDS

   Resistance............DAWN
   Oppression............IMPERA

SHRINES
You must visit a Shrine, then the Codex, then the Shrine again, in order to
be rewarded with an increase in attributes. After visiting all Shrines, you
will  be  given an important clue (the Word of Power for the Dungeon Doom).
The  waterfall  at  IK DG will take you to the Underworld if you are on the
Magic Carpet.
      SHRINE           LOCATION           MANTRA

      Honesty              EJ OJ                ahm
      Compassion           FM IA                mu
      Valor                OF CE                ra
      Justice              AL EJ                beh
      Sacrifice            CN MN                bah
      Honor                MP FB                summ
      Spirituality         BD KF                om
      Humility             NI OH                lum

EFFECTS OF POTIONS

      Yellow...........Heal
      Green............Poison yourself (Immunity to death, but
                       rarely works)
      Orange...........Sleep yourself
      White............X-Ray vision
      Black............Invisibility
      Blue.............Awaken yourself
      Purple...........Turns you into a rat
      Red..............Cures poison

SPELLS

      In Xen Mani......Creates food
      Rel Xen Bet......Changes into a rat
      An Ylem..........Vanish





                                 MOONGATES

When  a Moongate disappears, you can search and find a Moonstone. these may
be  carried,  and  when  used at any (grassy) location, will establish that
Moongate  at  that  spot.  It  is  advisable  to  take  one  or more of the
Moonstones  from  gates  that are not absolutely necessary, because you can
travel  to  the location by other means. For instance, it would not be wise
to  remove  the Moonstone from New Magencia. Good candidates are the stones
near  Brittany Bay, Yew or Trinsic, because these locations are easy to get
to by Magic Carpet.

                            MOONGATE LOCATIONS

   Gate    Vicinity      Activation     Lat./Long.   1st   2nd   3rd
     1     Moonglow     New Moon         IF/OA        1     2     3
     2     Britain      Crescent Waxing  GG/GA        4     5     6
     3     Jhelom       1st Quarter      OA/CG        7     8     1
     4     Yew          Gibbous Waxing   CF/DC        2     3     4
     5     Minoc        Full Moon        BD/KG      Shrine  6     7
     6     Trinsic      Gibbous Waning   MC/GI        8     1     2
     7     Skara Brae   Last Quarter     HO/BH        3     4     5
     8     New Magencia Crescent Waning  KH/LL        6     7     8


  * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
