                              THE BARD'S TALE
                             =================


                                 PART ONE
                                ----------

  Obviously, the first thing you must do is assemble your party. There is a
beginning party (supplied with the game) already equipped with a basic level of
armour, instruments, etc. A much better and unique option is to transfer
characters over from either WIZARDRY or ULTIMA III. These characters come over
as fairly senior level characters and make the beginning of this game much
easier. This is a highly desirable alternative.
  If you create your own characters -- which you must do for your bard -- pay
special attention to the dexterity attribute. This attribute determines who
strikes first in combat, and can be the difference between an easy encounter
and one which is a struggle. Magic users should have a high IQ, while fighter
classes should have a high strength. I recommend a monk as one of your
fighters. Their armour class drops as their level rises. Mine eventually had an
armour class of LO wearing only a robe. They also can do the most damage
unarmed in actual combat.

  My starting party consisted of a monk, two paladins, a bard, a magician and a
conjurer. At higher levels of the game, you will want to trade in one of your
paladins and develop another magic user.

  When you first leave the Adventurer's Guild, explore the city. Visit Garth's
Armoury, and find the Review Board (located next to the inn on Trumpet Street).
Don't wander too far until you get a feel for how you can survive. To restore
hit points after fighting, visit a temple. There all ills, including death, can
be cured for a price. After a fight, you will quite frequently find objects of
some type. Keep them all. If you don't need them, go to Garth's and sell them
for gold -- you will need it.

  Visit Roscoe's Energy emporium located off the Gran Plaz on the corner of
Grey Knife Street. There you will get an idea what it costs to restore spell
points.

  Early on, when you are still short of gold, the best way to restore spell
points is to go into the Adventurer's Guild and just wait. This game is in real
time, and spell points are restored as you just sit there. If you wait on the
street or in a house, you will almost certainly be attacked.

  When you find an object after a fight or in a chest in the dungeons,
experiment with it to find out what it is. There are no cursed items. Quite a
few objects have magical properties that are not readily apparent. Here are a
few of the objects that I found most useful, even though you won't run into
these until later in the game: Kael's Axe seemed to be the best weapon, causing
the most damage for my Paladins; a frost horn for your Bard, when used in
combat, causes 40-70 hit points of damage to a group of monsters; a mage staff
for your magic users allows them to regain spell points even in a dungeon (this
is incredibly useful). I will leave it up to you to discover the usefulness of
the other items found during the game.

  After learning the game play by wandering around the city and being able to
survive, it is time to visit the dungeons. This is where the battle with Mangar
will be won or lost.





                                 PART TWO
                                ----------

  There are five dungeons in the game that must be explored in the following
order: Wine Cellar and Sewers, The Catacombs, Harkyn's Castle, Kylearan's
Tower, and Mangar's Tower. Each contains something that will help in the
subsequent stages of the game.





                          Wine Cellar And Sewers
                         ------------------------

  The easiest dungeon of them all is reached from the inn on Rakhir Street.
Enter the inn, ask to order a drink, then select wine. You will then be ushered
into the Wine Cellar. I cannot overstress the importance of mapping in this
game. Whenever possible, have the MALE spell in operation. This will help you
avoid some of the traps that are lying around. When you have an encounter and
find a chest, always cast a TRZP spell to disarm any traps that may be guarding
the chest.

  Located in the Wine Cellar are the stairs down to the Sewers. The first level
of the Sewers contains almost nothing of interest. So locate the stairs to the
second level of the sewers as quickly as possible and get down there. The
second level contains one very important bit of information that you will need
to enter the Catacombs: the name of the Mad God. There are also two hints to
questions that will be asked in other dungeons. Explore this level fully to
find all the hints and the Mad God's name. The lowest level of the Sewers is
next and contains one item of importance for later in the game. Locate and take
the stairs exiting from this level. Make sure you know where the stairs lead
exactly. After this (I hope you have been visiting the Review Board regularly
to advance levels and learn new spells), you are ready for the Catacombs.





                               The Catacombs
                              ---------------

  The Catacombs are reached from one of the Mad God's Temples, located on the
east side of  the Temple, ask to speak to the priest, then give him the Mad
God's name: TARJAN.
  The first level of the Catacombs is just a survival test at this stage. Once
you can survive there fairly easily, head for the second level of the
Catacombs. The second level has a clue in it about the Mad God. It also
contains a very nasty creature called a Soul Sucker that lurks in the southwest
corner of the second level. If you decide to go in there and try him out, make
sure you have your character disk backed up. You will not be able to defeat him
at this stage of your development, but fortunately you don't have to.
  The lowest level of the Catacombs contains something you will need later.
Once you have reached the third level of the Catacombs, you must use a teleport
square to enter the Wizard's Realm. The teleport is located in the southeast
corner of the dungeon. Once you are in the Wizard's Realm, you must defeat him
to gain the Eye. After you have this item, you are ready to tackle Harkyn's
Castle.





                                PART THREE
                               ------------

                              Harkyn's Castle
                             -----------------

  Harkyn's Castle is located in the northeast corner of Skara Brae. At this
point in time, it becomes very important for you to have filled your special
slot with the most powerful character your magic users can summon. If you are
in the process of developing a wizard, a lesser demon is best.
  The first level of Harkyn's Castle contains one item of importance: the
Crystal Sword from the southeast corner of this level. You will now begin to
find some of the more powerful objects to experiment with during your
encounters. After obtaining the crystal sword, head for the second level of the
Castle. The stairs are located in the northeast corner of the first level.
  The second level of the Castle has a couple of interesting things. If you
answer the riddle correctly ("SHIELDS") you get a magic mouth which can be used
to cast the SOSI spell. You must also obtain the silver square from the
southwest corner of the dungeon. The access to this is from a teleport located
towards the middle of the northern section of the dungeon. The portal to the
third level is located in the northeast section of this level.

  The third level of the Castle contains the entrance to Kylearan's Tower and
some interesting opportunities. The answer to the Old Man's question is "SKULL
TAVERN." When you encounter the berserkers located at 12E 5N of this level,
take advantage. They can be fairly easily defeated with the right magic spells.
You should have at least two sorcerers capable of casting the MIBL spell. It
also helps if your bard has a frost or fire horn to aid the others along. When
you can defeat these guys easily, it is time to make another magic user. You
can teleport from the Castle entrance, fight the berserkers, teleport back to
the entrance, exit the castle, then do it again and again until your spells run
low. At 60,000 experience points a crack, it doesn't take long to develop a
decent magic user. After this, it is time to attempt Kylearan's Castle. When
you approach, and fight the statue of a Mad God located in the southeast corner
of this level, you will be teleported inside the gates of Kylearan's Tower.





                             Kylearan's Tower
                            ------------------

  After the battle with the Mad God and your subsequent teleport (you did have
the eye in your possession), go one step forward, turn right, then kick the
door down. You will then be entering one of the two most difficult mazes in the
game. Most of it is in the dark and there are riddles that must be answered.
Backup your character disk before entering this maze. Once you are in, watch
carefully for teleports: they are everywhere. It is extremely important that
you map this maze very carefully. After you have reached the antimagic square
from wandering in a very small section of the dark, the next step forward is a
teleport to 11E 12N. Explore until you find a magic mouth that asks you to
"Name the one of cold, foretold twofold," The answer to this one is "STONE
GOLEM." You will then be teleported again. After this, you will enter a very
large, dark area. In order to get out of this, you must answer the question
posed at 12E 2N which says, "Name the Endless Byway and your path will be
guaranteed." The answer to this is the only street in Skara Brae with no end,
Sinister. You then can map your way through a lighted section to another dark
area. From this dark area you must obtain the Silver Triangle, located at the
very north of the dark area. You can then exit the dark area, going south from
1E 6N. After this, you will face the Crystal Golem (did you bring the Crystal
Sword?). You can defeat him with conventional weapons and spells, but somebody
has to have the crystal sword or he will reappear to block your exit.
  At this point, you can exit the tower to refresh your players or continue on.
If you exit, when you re-enter you must again answer the endless byway question
to continue. Upon reaching the end of the snaky road on the east side of the
maze, don't go through the south door. Take the door that goes west. You will
then enter several rooms with spinners and teleports that make finding your way
almost impossible. The way past these is southwest. When you make it, you will
be teleported to 14E 1N. It is then an easy stroll to meet Kylearan himself. He
turns out to be the friendly wizard and gives you a key that allows you to get
into Mangar's Tower. He then teleports you to the stairs exiting his tower.
You no longer need the crystal sword or the eye, and you are now ready for
Mangar himself.





                              Mangar's Tower
                             ----------------

  If you paid heed and followed the stairs from the bottom level of the Sewers,
you will know how to get inside Mangar's walls. If not, go to the Wine Cellar,
teleport your party 17E 16N 3D, and take the stairs up. Then turn right and
kick the door in. You should be at the entrance to Mangar's Tower.

  Level one of Mangar's is fairly easy to find your way around in. Follow the
teleports and walk around until you reach the magic mouth on the east side of
the maze. What is tricky is that after leaving the magic mouth, you are now on
level 2 of the tower. So be careful in mapping.

  Level two of Mangar's is again fairly easy (not even a warm-up for level 3).
From this level you must answer the question located at 4E 15N to obtain the
silver circle. The answer to the question is "CIRCLE." You must then make your
way to the stairs located in the middle of the southern side of the maze.

  Level three is the hardest maze of all, but by this time you must be getting
really proficient at mapping. You must wander around this level and obtain
quite a number of items. First of all, you should get the master key, for
50,000 gold pieces, from 19E 12N. This key allows you to enter Mangar's through
the front gate, instead of from the Sewers. You must then find the clues to the
seven words needed to access the fourth level of Mangar's. Gratefully, you can
teleport into and out of this level of the Tower. After finding the clues, you
can then speak the seven words to the magic mouth located at 10E 4N. They must
be entered one at a time. The words are, "LIE WITH PASSION AND BE FOREVER
DAMNED." Stairs will then appear at 3E 9N. This is the only way to obtain
entrance to the upper reaches of Mangar's.

  The fourth level of Mangar's has only one tricky part. When  you first
arrive, you have a limited number of ways you can go. After reaching a certain
point, located in the northeast corner of the level, doors appear everywhere.
Don't be confused. Everything maps the same, it's just that doors are
everywhere. Eventually you will find the portal to level five in the southwest
corner of this level.

  Level five is the home stretch. This easy maze leads you to the lava pit in
the middle of the eastern side of the maze. There you dive in and are
teleported to 10E 6N. You will then find the march up the hall of harm to be
fruitless if you didn't bring the three silver items along. If you have the
silver triangle, silver square, and silver circle, a door will appear directly
north of you. After passing through this door, cast your REST spell to restore
everybody to health and proceed directly north to the final battle with Mangar.

  The final battle itself is a large disappointment as it is fairly easy to
defeat Mangar and his vampires, and meet Kylearan again, who gives you 300,000
bonus experience points. After defeating Mangar, you can then proceed one more
square north for the last question of the game. The answer is "SPECTRE SNARE,"
which you then receive (it is good for binding to your party any of your
opponents in battle).

=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=





                           BARD'S TALE MONSTER LIST
                          --------------------------

                   These monsters are listed from strongest
                   to weakest.  Only their names are given.

         1.  Ancient  Enemy      37.  Demon            73. Lurker
         2.  Balrog              38.  Banderswitch     74. Fire Giant
         3.  Lich                39.  Maze Dweller     75. CopperGiant
         4.  Archmage            40.  Manger           76. Samurai
         5.  Demonlord           41.  Mandar Guard     77. Black Widow
         6.  Oldman              42.  Gimp             78. Assassin
         7.  Master Magician     43.  Red Dragon       79. Werewolf
         8.  Master Sorcerer     44.  Titan            80. Ogre
         9.  Master Conjurer     45.  Shadow           81. Wright
         10. Master Wizard       46.  Berserker        82. Statue
         11. Mindshadow          47.  Conjurer         83. Bladesman
         12. Spectre             48.  Magician         84. Goblin Lord
         13. Cloud Giant         49.  Wizard           85. MasterThief
         14. Greater Demon       50.  Sorcerer         86. Ninja
         15. Mad God             51.  White Dragon     87. Spinner
         16. Beholder            52.  Ice Giant        88. ScarletMonk
         17. Vampire Lord        53.  Eye Spy          89. DopplerGanger
         18. Maze Master         54.  Ogre Lord        90. Stone Giant
         19. Death Denzien       55.  Mad dog          91. Spider
         20. Jaber               56.  Wolf             92. Thief
         21. Black Dragon        57.  Phantom          93. Gnome
         22. Mangar              58.  Lesser Demon     94. Dwarf
         23. Crystal Golem       59.  Fred             95. Thief
         24. Soulsucker          60.  Ogre Magi        96. Hobgoblin
         25. Storm Giant         61.  JackelWare       97. Skeleton
         26. Master Ninja        62.  Stone Elemental  98. Nomad
         27. War Giant           63.  Blue Dragon      99. Spider
         28. Elite               64.  Seeker          100. Mad Dog
         29. Bonecrusher         65.  Dwarf King      101. Barbarian
         30. Ghost               66.  Samurai Warrior 102. Mercenaries
         31. Grey Dragon         67.  Ghoul           103. Wolf
         32. Basilisk            68.  Azure Monk      104. Jade Wolf
         33. Evil Eye            69.  Weretiger       105. Half Orc
         34. Mimic               70.  Hydra           106. Swordsman
         35. Golem               71.  Green Dragon    107. Zombie
         36. Vampire             72.  Wraith
_______________________________________________________________________________
