
About Bomber 1.0
================

This is the Amiga Version of the Game "Bombs" on the Mac.
Bomber 1.0 is in the public domain (unless the concept is
copyrighted - remember T*TR*S? - but that's very unlikely).

I saw this thing a week ago on a friend's office mac.  After
playing some minutes (or was it hours?), I wondered how this
great idea could still not exist for the Amiga (at least not
with this or a similar name).

So I decided to make it exist.

To install the game on your harddisk, just drag all files (not
necessarily the sources of course) or the whole drawer to your
preferred games partition/drawer.

You will need 2.0 to play this game, it multitasks well and the
memory reqirements are neglectible.  The game as is will need
about 40K of 'any' mem, 0.5K - 50K of chip mem, depending on the
position and size of the window, and 100K of chip mem for the
sounds.  You can easily reduce the program's chipmem needs by
removing the sounds (or replacing them with smaller ones).

Click on "About" to see the rules.  I strongly recommend using
ARQ, the Amiga ReQuester enhancer.  The EasyRequests look ten
times better than with plain 2.0.

Of those 40K of 'any' mem, 20K are the program's stack.  You
should not try to save mem by cutting the stack size.  Actually,
when running the game on a high resolution display or on a big
virtual screen, you should raise this value to avoid crashs.

If you have other problems running the game, try starting it from
the shell.  It should print out, what's wrong.  If that doesn't
help...  hm, maybe you will have to live without it...

The sources are included.  There's nothing special or tricky
about the coding, just standard 2.0 stuff.  But as I learn 2.0
programming from other people's sources, I think I should give
you the chance to do so as well.


Send flames to HELL: and comments to
	balzer@heike.informatik.uni-dortmund.de
or
	M.BALZER@AWORLD.ZER



P.S.:

Nobody said you won't need luck in some situations... ;-)


P.P.S.:

SH*T...  I have now been told it HAS been ported, also the
original version was a game called "MineSweeper" on HAL
computers.  But my version is the best, anyway ;-).  Also,
someone told me there's a shareware version out there --- I think
it's really a bit too much to ask for money for such a minigame!

