                      :------<<< RAID v. 1.0 >>>------:
                      `---------------=)--------------'





                                                       Relesed late summer 99'

READ ME CONTENTS:

    1. Introduction.                 Stuff.
    2. About the game.               Important stuff. (controls etc.)
    3. The Main menu.                See above.
    4. Installing.                   Assigns and other things.
    5. System requirements.          What you need to make it jump.
    6. The future.                   well..
    7. Author.                       skipp..



1. INTRODUCTION

Due to the lack of software on my favorite platform (AMIGA!), I decided to
make a game on my own. I do not claim to be the best coder around, I am
in fact a GFX artist. You must have seen this type of game at least a hundred
times, yes it is a gravity game. I made it because I REALLY LIKE THESE GAMES.
It is FREEWARE, in other words: Give a copy to all your friends NOW! =)



2. ABOUT THE GAME

You control a small space ship (SURPRISED!!) in diffrent conditions. The aim
is to kill cannons and retrive as many things as possible. Stay of the walls,
or they will hit you silly until you crash. Only land on marked areas.
The game is FREEWARE (am I nuts?).



3. THE MAIN MENU

After the logo the Main menu will appear. From here you can choose to start
the game, load/save pilot, change options or read the mission text. Oh... bye
the way, there is a quit option (never used really).


  SELECT PILOT:

  This option brings up the pilot list. To save, just click on the "Save"
  button and on a pilot slot, then type in your name. To load a pilot, click
  on the "Load" button and then on your pilot name. You can read the pilot
  status to the right of the name. I suggest you save after every level.


  MISSION:

  Here you can read the mission text and choose your ship for the current
  mission. Click on the info button to view additional information about
  your current ship.


  OPTIONS:

  In the Options menu you can choose stereo (only stereo on engine sound) or
  no stereo. Some samples will be lost if stereo is turned on (more audio
  channels NOW!) So i recommend no stereo. You can also choose control method,
  joy-button for thrust and joy-up for fire or joy-button for fire and joy-up
  for thrust. I prefer Joy-button for thrust, choose this if you newer played
  a gravity game before. Other controls are joy-right/left to tip the nose of
  the ship to that direction.

  The player setup is at present time DOG vs CPU or DOG vs DOG. If DOG vs DOG
  is enabled you will fly against a friend and - hopefully, shoot him down.
  If all your friends are using an awful PC, then I have got the option for
  you - DOG vs CPU. Here you will battle the uncanny ALIEN INTRUDERS and
  hope for an easy kill.

  The keybord in single player is used to control the transport if
  available. Controls are:

    * Space  - Stop tranport at its current possition
             - Release transport from its current possition.

    * Return - Order transport to pick up stuff, if she is near it.

  If you are in two player mode there is also an extra bonus weapon if you
  pull the stick down, also the second player can control his/her ship by
  keybord. Controls are:

    * Curor left/right - Tilt the ship in that direction.
    * Cursor up        - Fire primary weapon.
    * Cursor down      - Fire secondery weapon.
    * Space bar        - Thrust.



  START:

  This button starts the game, but there is a trick to it. If you are
  in DOG vs DOG mode you will be taken to the "pre-start" screen.

  This screen is where you select your ship and ground for battle. You can
  construct your own custom maps, like in worms or you can select a
  "pre defined" battle ground. I have made six of them at present time.
  The "Import" option is used to load an iff-picture from disk. The picture
  will then be the ground for your sortie. The width of the picture
  should be 640 pixels and the height should be 512 pixels, valid colors
  are 128. Study the palette or mail me if you want to know the background,
  foreground, ship, bullet colors etc... =)


  QUIT:

  This option will format your hard disk and kill all your friends, nasty.
  Do not use!!! (Same thing will happen if you press ESC)



4. INSTALLING

Unpack the game files to your hard disk in a directory which you have
named "RAID". Then type the following line in the user-startup file and
save it.

assign RAID: The path which you unpacked the game files to.

You can also go to CLI and type the line, but that will only work until you
reset your Amiga. So if you unpacked the game files to "GAMES:RAID" you should
type this:

assign RAID: GAMES:RAID

There might be a problem with the font that is used by RAID. If the game
doesn`t start, try copying the font named "small.font" and its drawer to
your workbench fonts drawer, that might help (I do not think it is necessary
but it may cause error). Small.font lays in the RAID/Font drawer.

I do not take any responsibility for any damage that might have been caused
by RAID to your system.



5. SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

RAID needs the following stuff to work:

* All game files.
* Amiga 1200 with a 030 processor.
* A hard disk with 6.3 megs of free disk space. (!)
* Fastram. (Not to mush I hope ;)
* Some luck and patience.

I have only played RAID on my computer which have a 030 processor with 8 megs
of ram. Hope it works on other Amigas as well, drop me a m@il and let me know.



6. The future

Hmm... I have not planed to do any major updates for RAID. Might pop up a
new game instead =)


                                          =)
7. AUTHOR (skip this)

My name is Daniel Olofsson and I am 21. Living in Sweden I am, Umea to be
exact, currently unempoyed. I have been coding in Blitz Basic 2.1 (the
prog. I use for this game) for about 2.5 years but I have been drawing
with computers for about 10 years. If any GameDeveloper should want to
contact me, feel free to do so:

     My email address:           My home page:

       herro@earthling.net          http://hem.passagen.se/herro

Now go and enjoy the game.

/Herr. O late summer 99'
