Ability ratings are your character's Hit Points, Spell Power, Stamina,
Intellect, Agility, and Charisma.  Naturally, the higher their rating, the
better the character plays.  Your abilities increase as your character goes
up in Experience Levels, thus the goal of this game.  Also, the class of your
character can determine how quickly your abilities increase, i.e., a Fighter's
Strength increases more than a Magician's, but a Magician's Intellect increases
more than a Fighter's.  See Character Classes for more information on this.

-=> Hit Points <=-
This measures the character's ability to take 'hits' until that character dies.
The more hit points you have, the more damaging blows you can take.  You get
all of your hit points back everytime you dial in, you go up in level, or by
purchasing them at the hospital in the square.  Other means of temporarily
restoring hit points is casting Healing or Cure spells, drinking a Potion of
Healing in the dungeon, or catching and eating a fish.

-=> Spell Power <=-
This ability shows you how much magical energy a character has.  Depending upon
the character's class and what spells he has, that character can cast spells to
inflict damage (Blast and Disintegrate) or restore his hit points (Heal and
Cure) or other nasty effects (Confusion and Polymorph).  Any character with 500
or more spell power may cast spells during battle.  Of course, most non-magic
users have the extra ability to buy Wands at a premium price.

-=> Stamina <=-
The character's strength allows for extra hitting power per attack or punch.
Also, bonus hit points are awarded to characters with higher stamina when
advancing to the next experience level.

-=> Intellect <=-
The character's intelligence is mainly used for effectly casting spells and
using wands.  It is used in approximating your opponents hit points during
battle; the higher your intellect, the more accurate you can determine the
condition of your opponent.  Intellect is accounted for when you attempt to
retreat from a dungeon monster; the higher your intellect, the better chance
you will have successfully escaping from a nasty creature.  Higher Intellect
in some situations may give you an option to choose, instead of your character
blindly reacting.  Like stamina, bonus spell power are awarded to magic-user
classes with higher intellect when advancing to the next experience level.

-=> Agility <=-
Your overall fighting ability is measured with agility.  This measurement is
used when calculating who gets the first attack, whether contact was made or
not, jousting ability, and your ability to traverse the dungeon's trap doors.
Further, some classes have a small, defensive 'saving throw' with Agility,
thus making them a bit harder to hit, even when possessing maximum Agility.

-=> Charisma <=-
Higher charisma will save you more gold when selling items in the square.  You
will get more gold from defeating your opponents as well.  Also, some of the
'random' events that occur will have a higher tendacy to favor those with
higher charisma.
