
About the PuzzleBOBS ascii configuration file.

The file you use to configure game must be an ASCII standard file.
The values must be written on the left of a line and a line corresponds to a value.
You must not jump a line infact a line without a value corresponds to 0.
You can insert the value and than you can use tabs and spaces and return to pass to the next
line, but if you insert others characters they will be consider part of value.
If you write a number you must insert it as decimal number using only -,0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9 , if
you insert other characters you will distort the value of number.
For example to put a number also negative you can write:

100	
-100
--100

these are equivalent to 100 -100 and 100.

100a  ;this is a wrong numeric value because "a" becames part of number.

If you want insert a string you must use conventions of Amiga Dos and not exceed 79 chars lenght.
You can write:

work:puzzlebobs/gfx.obj

and if you have a string with spaces you have to write it between quotes.

"work:puzzlebobs/gfx obj"

In a line you can insert a comment with ";" and after it you can write and use all characters 
of ASCII set, for example:

100   ;value, 3 spaces and comment.
100;value and comment
-100			;value , 3 tabs and comment.

with a string:

work:puzzlebobs/gfx.obj		;String of a file.....


Finally you can have free lines.To declare them you must insert ";" at the beginning of line.
for example:

;this line is not considered as a valid value line.
 ;if you insert a space before ";" the line will condsider as a valid value line as zero.

 
Some strings in game can accept a return value. These are strings used during levels passage
or others circumstances.
To get a return you can add a "" (LALT+0) in the string. For example:

"Game Over팒layers"

Will be printed on screen as.

   Game Over
    Players

If you want a space between line you can insert a space as here.

"Game Over 팒layers"

Will be printed as this:

   Game Over

    Players

If you put a "" at the beginning or at the end of string it will not take effect.
The same if you insert more of one "" in sequence.


I advise you to use the configuration files included in game package, copying ,renaming and 
modifing these.
However if you fail writing a value the game will inform you about the error 
by an AmigaOS error requester.