                                SKID ROW

                                presents

                             F29 RETALIATOR 
                             
F29 RETALIATOR MANUAL

PAGE   CONTENTS

  1.   SCENARIO
  1.   LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
  3.   AIRCRAFT DATA
  6.   MAIN SELECTION SCREEN
  9.   WEAPONS
 14.   MISSIONS
 28.   KEYBOARD CONTROLS
 30.   COCKPIT DISPLAY
 38.   SIMPLE CONTROL
 39.   SCORING
 40.   MODEM OPTION


F29 RETALIATOR SCENARIO

   A new and deadly breed of fighters are taking shape in the secret
workshops deep in the American West: 
The Advanced Tactical Fighter F22 and the Forward Swept Wing F29.  They 
will convey one message to the enemy - the Retaliators are effective, 
deadly and meet the threats of 21st Century warfare.

   A new breed of pilots have been specially trained to take full
advantage of all advanced avionic and weapon systems.  Each pilot has
been assigned a dangerous brief - to penetrate waves of surface-to- air
missiles, destroy hostile AWACS and radar, launch ground strikes at enemy
resources, armies, installations and communication links and disrupt
hostile offensives before they reach friendly territory.  Placed on the
forward area of battle, their bases will be under air and missile attack 
from H-hour + zero.  The odds do not look good.  They must destroy four or
more hostiles for every loss in order to survive and win.

You are one such pilot.

You are one of the elite.

You are a Retaliator.

LOADING

AMIGA 500

   Insert the disk into the primary drive and switch your computer on. 
The program will load automatically.

AMIGA 1000

   Insert the Kickstart disk into the primary drive and switch your 
computer on.  When the Workbench prompt appears, insert the program disk 
and the game will load automatically.

-1-

DESIGNER NOTES

   Retaliator is a flight simulation program based upon two of the most
revolutionary aircraft designs ever conceived.  The Lockheed YF-22A
Advanced Tactical and Grumman X-29.

   The designers took both experimental aircraft and considered their
performance in the combat arena.  Just how "advanced" would the ATF
be under the stress of combat?  Would the Forward Swept Wings (FSW) of 
the X-29 be an advantage or would they lead to an unstable, 
uncontrollable disaster?  What better way than to create a simulated
world of tension and violence and place both aircraft in realistic,
challenging combat situations?

-2-

   Consequently, the X-29 was changed to F-29.  The YF-22 to F-22.
Incidently, the decision to plump for the YF-22 as the basis for the
ATF flight model was due to the privledged information obtained by the
designers stating that the compact YF-22 would be similar to the
McDonnell Douglas F-15.  Thus the designers were able to produce the
necessary flight equations extrapolated from the available data from
the F-15's flight model and modified with the privleged data obtained
for the YF-22.

   Complex calculations were considered, therefore, that ultimately
resulted in the graphical design of the designer's ATF.  Having now
witnessed the roll-out of the YF-22 during August 29 1990, the
designers believe, rather smugly, that they were pretty close.
 
AIRCRAFT DATA

GRUMMAN X-29

   The Grumman X-29 was developed as a technology demonstrator.  The project,
that has its roots in the early seventies, was instigated towards creating
the dream of "sustained manoeuvrability" (SR), a feature looked upon as the
most desirable quality in any combat fighter aircaft.  Cobbled together
from a number of other aircraft (F-5A fuselage, flight control avionics
from the SR-71 Blackbird, F-16 undercarriage, etc) the most striking
feature of the X-29 is its forward swept, thin, supercritical wings (FSW).
The key, many believe to SR. First flying in December 1984 the X-29 has
proved to be  a valuable asset that will, ultimately, produce a FSW 
combat aircraft.  In fact, new studies have shown a forward swept
wing STOVL (Short Take Off and Vertical landing) multi-role supersonic 
fighter which could be feasible in the late 1990's thanks to improved 
engine performance.  

THE ADVANCED TACTICAL FIGHTER

   During 1981 the first step towards a new fighter was taken when the
Aeronautical Systems Division issued a "request for information", to
the American aeronautical industry Called the Advanced Tactical Fighter,
the advanced studies produced a number of specific requirements 
highlighted via a McDonnell Douglas document. It emphasised the most
important attributes as:

     STOL - Short Take Off and Landing

     STEALTH - Radar Invisible

     SUPERCRUISE - Supersonic persistence without using any afterburner
                   used primarily in the stratosphere.

-3-

   In 1986 Lockheed, General Dynamics and Boeing announced an agreement
that they would team up to develop an ATF if one of their proposals was
selected.  Two weeks later Northrop and McDonnell Douglas announced a
similar arrangement. 

    Rolled out for its first public performance on June 22 1990 the Northrop 
/ McDonnell Douglas YF-23A underwent intensive engine tests, ground taxi
trials and system checks before it took to the air on August 27.  Leaving 
the tarmac at 07.15 and sailing into the brisk morning air, test pilot
Paul Metz flew the YF-23A for 50 minutes during which time it was noticed
that, due to high performance, the F-15 and F-16 chase planes had to
initiate afterburner just to keep up with the cruising ATF contender.

   The rival Lockheed/Boeing/General/Dynamics YF-22A rolled out two days
later on August 29.  As with the YF-23 two prototypes were envisaged to
test the two sets of proposed engines (Pratt & Whitney F119s and General
Electric F120s).  At the time of writing, though, the YF-22A had not
taken to the air.  If the YF-22A wins the contest (the results of which
is scheduled to be published in April 1991) the USAF will require 750
examples (to replace the F-15), the US Navy will also purchase an 
unspecified amount (to replace the F-14).

   The new ATF will present a dramatic improvement over the present 
combat fighter aircraft.  For example, manoeuvres at or exceeding 
9g will be sustained over a wider flight envelope thanthe F-16.  
Pitching, rolling and yawing will be completed far quicker, too.  The
YF-22A is far more an air superiority fighter than the YF-23A is in the
classic sense.  The addition of its small section results in a low
observable target that will improve the ATF pilot's chances in
achieving a "visually acquired" target. 

 
   It is believed that the ATF will fly at Mach 1.4 to 1.5 (930 to 1000 
mph) on dry thrust with full armament and will cruise at a greater altitude 
than any of the current fighters: 70,000 ft as opposed to 50,000 ft in 
the High Fast Sanctuary (the area of the sky, not normally utilised by
conventional fighters, where high speed and height lower SAM hits due
to the low manoeuvrability of the majority of SAMs in this area - a
tactic already exploited by the SR-71 Blackbird spyplane).  This results
in a relatively low threat from long-range SAMs and no threat at all 
from the smaller SAM types.  Due to the ATF's high cruise speed and 
altitude the fighters exposure time would be reduced by a factor of three.

In combat, apart from the usual gamut of short and long-range missiles
the ATF will carry twin enhanced Vulcan cannons produced with half
the finished weight of normal models, thus enabling the ATF to carry
1800 rounds up from the usual 600.  In addition, a higher muzzle
velocity means that the ATF packs a bigger punch.

-4-

   It is thought that the ATF's combat radius will be 700 to 920 miles - 
a significant increase over the F-15.  It should be able to take-off 
from a 2,000 ft runway or rough surfaces and will be easier to maintain 
than the F-15.  Great use is made of wing to body blending like the
F-16, SR71 and B1, again providing more internal volume for fuel and 
weapons.  For its stealth capabilities the ATF is constructed with RAM 
(Radar Absorbent Materials).  It is also designed to reduce the radar 
cross section by a factor of 100 compared to the F-15.

   The control surfaces (flaps, rudders, etc) and the vectoring nozzles 
on the ATF work together under the control of powerful computers.
The actual aircraft will be so complex and have so many flight modes
the pilot would not be able to exploit them all.  The pilot issues a 
command and the system will interpret it, i.e: if the pilot pulls back 
sharply on the stick, the control system will first deflect the 
vectoring nozzles upward and the MAW flaps (Mission Adapted Wing) 
downward, to rotate the fuselage and start the aircraft into the manoeuvre.
The basic argumment for super manoeuvrebility (the ability to turn at low
air speed at high G's within a very small radius) is that an aircraft
which cannot emulate such a manoeuvre can be prevented to bring its
weapons to bear.

   Both fourth-generation aircraft, the ATF and X-29, have pushed back
the boundaries of aviation.

   Now sit back, relax - and with the help of Ocean, push back a few
boundaries with your own fourth generation flight simulation.  Have fun.

YF-29:

Length - 14.63m
Height - 4.7m
Wing Span - 8.23m

YF-22 A:

Length - 21.3m
Height - 4.29m
Wing Span - 13.11

-5-

MAIN SELECTION COMPUTER:

  (Start up sequence)

AMIGA VERSION - THE ORDER OF OPTIONS IN THE MAIN SELECTION AREA AND MISSION
CONTROL COMPUTER VARIES SLIGHTLY TO THE PC VERSION IE: CHOOSE PLANE AND
WEAPONS IS TO BE FOUND ON THE MISSION CONTROL SECTION OF THE GAME.

    1. The Enrol Data Bank

   Here you enrol in the USAF and select your rank.  To remove a rank from
the default list, press the back space key or a none letter key.  Press
the ESCAPE key to abort an entry without changing the roster list. To
enter a new pilot just type a new name via the keyboard and press 
ENTER/RETURN key.  This name will appear on the duty roster.  If you
have a number of different names on your roster (up to a maximum of six 
different names and therefore six different pilot logs) use the up/down
cursor key to move through the active pilot list and press ENTER/RETURN
to select.  To retire a pilot type the required name and press F10.
This will provide more room to enrole a new pilot.  Ranks are selected
function keys (refer to screen for specific keys) they are available
from lowest to highest rank are as follows: First Lieutenant - Captain
- Major - Lieutenant Colonel - Colonel.  The higher the rank you select,
the more variety of missions will be available.  More points are
awarded to the higher rank for the same mission as the game will be
harder (see scoring).  To return to the main menu, press either return
or click on OK or Cancel with the mouse.
  
    2. Choose your scenario

   On this screen you are given the choice of four different locations.
Three of these locations will involve you in the wars that are taking
place in those areas.  

The four scenarios are:

a) Arizona.  You are assigned to the USAF Test Range in Arizona where 
you will be given the controls of the new ATF and the new F29.  The test 
range is approximately 1000 sq miles.  It contains various targets and 
remote control vehicles.  This world is a true simulation of a hostile
environment.

b) The Middle East.  Several F22's and F29's have been exported to a 
friendly Middle East nation who are currently engaged in a fierce war 
with two other countries.  The friendly nations' artillery is, however,
heavily out-numbered although it is technically superior to its rivals. 
Consequently, in order to succeed three enemy planes must be destroyed 
for every one friendly aircraft destroyed.  The War is on two fronts, 
with large tank battles to the south-west and artillery

-6-

exchanges across the natural river boundary to the south-east, anti-
aircraft flak is centered around high priority targets.  The ATF 
Squadron is based near the capital Tel-A-Von.

c) The Pacific Ocean.  Strategically important volcanic islands, the
Solomos provide vital oil supplies to the USA.  This area is the only 
deep sea port for 1000 miles in all directions.  A small military 
airstrip is located there with a squadron of ATF's.  A military blockade 
by the enemy fleet has cut-off all support to the islands, threatening 
the vital oil supplies to the USA and readying to invade the islands.
A task force from Guam led by USS JF Kennedy is steaming towards the war
zone with two squadrons of F-14's and F-18's.

d) Europe - the Ultimate Battle Front.  The diplomacy has failed and the 
world is about to plunge into another world war.  A full scale 
conventional war across the heartland of Europe will begin.  All 
airfields, installations, factories and towns will be attacked and 
initial losses are expected to heavy on both sides.  The NATO forces 
have been mobilised and put on full alert, as have all air bases with all 
squadrons being dispersed away from the vulnerable bases.  Mounting enemy 
activity has been reported near the border where an estimated 90,000 
tanks and 3 million soldiers have amassed.  The enemy is expected to 
launch a massive assault on key points along the border.  Its airforce
will plunge deep into your country crippling the infra-structure.
Two enemy tank divisions have assembled along the border with huge
reinforcements being drawn up from their rear flanks.  The situation 
will be critical if the enemy mobile tank divisions break through the 
border defences as they will plunge deep into your territory threatening 
the industrial complexes at Huttgart, Nurgen and Coberg.  Be wary of AAA
flak.  Many flak stations are radar guided so it is inadvisable to linger
in any one area otherwise severe damage will be taken. 

To select your scenario press key 1, 2, 3 or 4.

    3. Select Plane

   AMIGA - Using the mouse, point the cursor on the panel below the
plane you wish to select.  Clicking once on the appropriate panel will
select it and return you to the Mission Control menu.

    4. Select Armament

   See Weapons and Stores.

    5. View Sierra Hotel Pilots

   This screen shows the top ten highest scores achieved by pilots. 
These scores are saved automatically.  Press RETURN or CLICK the OK 
button with the MOUSE to return to the main menu.

-7-

    6. Zulu Alert

   Zulu Alert provides a quick entry into the game.  You are given 
unlimited weapons and begin a "shoot-em-up" game in your selected 
scenario, starting in mid-air flight against a squadron of enemy
fighters.  No points are awarded and no log information is saved to disk
as this is merely a practice exercise.

    7. Mission Control

   Selecting this option puts you into the mission control section of the
game.  When entering Mission Control you are provided with the latest 
update of the war situation in your chosen scenario (except Arizona)
with a detailed map showing the battle front and text describing the
latest events in the war.  War updates are provided after every four or
so missions, dependent on your scenario.

Press RETURN to access the Mission Control options screen.

    8. HEAD TO HEAD (PC ONLY)

   Refer to comm section.

MISSION CONTROL SELECTION MENU

    1. Choose Mission

   Here you are provided with a selection of missions, the number of 
which is dependent on three factors: your rank; your location and how 
long into the war you are.  Simply select a number.

    2. Display War Update

   This shows the current war situation and the battle front.  You may
have to refer to this war update to find the exact location of ground
based battles which vary across the battle zone.  The war update map
varies daily.

    3. Select Base

   Using the mouse, point the cursor on an airfield located on the map.
Clicking with the left button on an air base provides you with a text
description of the base and clicking again on the same base will confirm
this as your home base in the game; i.e starting location.

    4. View Pilots Log

   The game disk is designed to store all of the statistics of one pilot 
e.g his/her number of missions completed; name; rank; score and awards.

    5. Exit Mission Control

   Returns you to main selection screen.

-8-

    6. Accept Mission

   This puts the player directly into their chosen scenario.  It is 
essential that all aircraft, weapons, mission scenarios, etc: have been 
selected prior to accepting a mission as the default status will be 
totally inadequate for the scenarios you will be presented with. On 
entering the 3-D section of the game you are shown a welcome screen
appropriate to your location.  Here you have the option to abort by
pressing escape and return to mission control.  Any other key will start
the mission.

END GAME

   At the end of the game whether you fail or complete your mission, or 
are killed or retire you are returned to the main computer bank where you 
are given a quick debriefing of the mission and your current statistics.
Pressing any key to continue will then return you to the mission control
selection screen.

WEAPONS AND STORES

   The F-22 and F-29 boast a wide and awesome variety of weapons.  For air-
to-air and air to ground missions the weapons are selected by clicking
on the left mouse button over the appropriate weapon (to deselect, click 
RH button). 

   Both planes have a limited payload and are restricted to 11,000 pounds 
on the ATF and 9000 on the FSW.  Weapons are subject to availability, 
dependent on your base, location and rank.  Shortages will become likely 
further into the wars.  Both planes have seven pylons (the ATF has four 
external and three internal pylons in a bomb bay to reduce drag).

-9-

MAXIMUM STORES PER PYLON 

                                           _______________________
        WEAPON                            |   |   |   |   |   |   |
        AIR TO AIR              PYLONS:   A   B   C   D   E   F   G

        BACKWINDER-9X                   | 1 |   |   |   |   |   | 1 |
        AIM9M-SIDEWINDER                | 1 | 1 | 1 |   | 1 | 1 | 1 |
        AIM132 ASRAAM-N                 | 1 | 3 | 3 | 3 | 3 | 3 | 1 |
        AMRAAM-120A                     |   | 1 | 2 |   | 2 | 1 |   |
        AIAAM-FIREBOLT                  |   | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 |   |
                                        |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
        AIR TO GROUND                   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
        MRASM-AGM 109H                  |   |   |   | 1 |   |   |   |
        ASLAM BDM                       |   |   |   | 1 |   |   |   |
        CSW                             |   |   | 1 | 1 | 1 |   |   |
        MAVERICK AGM-1                  |   | 3 | 3 |   | 3 | 3 |   |
        EXTERNAL FUEL TANK              |   |   | 1 | 1 | 1 |   |   |
        TWIN GUN, 1760 ROUNDS           |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |

-10-

AIR TO AIR WEAPONS

    AIAAM - Fire Bolt

   Advanced intercept, long range, "fire and forget", air-to-air missile.
Developed by Raytheon, and first revealed at the US Navy League in 1982,
the Fire Bolt includes high specification "twist and manoeuvre" 
manoeuvring abilities.  Introduced as the successor to the AIM-54 Phoenix,
the Fire Bolt is probably the most advanced and sophisticated missile
in the world with mid-course and active homing abilities.

Weight - 980 lbs.
Range - 250 km (130 miles).
Speed - Mach 5.

    AMRAAM 120 A

   Advanced, medium range, air-to-air missile, "fire and forget" with active
radar homing known also as BVR (Beyond Visual Range) missile.  The AMRAAM 
is the direct replacement for the AIM-7F Sparrow.  It includes advanced
target acquisition facilities that allows it to pick out individual
targets at extreme range.  

Weight - 326 lbs
Range - 50 km
Speed - Mach 4

    AIM9M-R-SIDEWINDER

   This short range AAM is the last and most advanced variant of the 
Sidewinder family with an infra-red seeker.  This builds a detailed image 
of the target (similar to a Maverick) and, using the in-built ECCM
(Electronic Counter Counter Measures)  isn't easily duped by counter
measures.  The AIM9M-R is a modification of the AIM9M which is, itself,
an improved AIM9L Sidewinder.

Weight - 190 lbs
Range - 11 miles
Speed - Mach 3

-11-

    AIM132 ASRAAM-N

   Standing for Advanced Short Ranged AAM, the ASRAAM is smaller and
more agile than the Sidewinder.  Guidance is controlled by an advanced 
focal plane array infra-red seeker.

Weight - 156 lbs
Range - 9 miles
Speed - MAch 3

    BACK-WINDER 9X

    Rear mount short range air to air missile.  A new weapon that overcomes
the problem of a rear firing missile system.  It locks upon the attack
radar of the enemy fighter.

Weight - 180 lbs
Range - 6 miles
Speed - Mach 3

AIR TO SURFACE MISSILES

   MRASM, AGM-109H CRUISE MISSILE 

   A base line airfield attack missile with DSMAC II (digital scene 
matching area correlation) guidance and carrying a heavy payload of 58 
TAAM (Tactical Airfield Attack Missile).  Bomblets are discharged from 
upward facing tubes along the fuselage. The General Dynamics AGM-109H is
a major variant of the Tomahawk strategic nuclear cruise missile, 
although it contains no launch capsule/box or rocket booster motor.  This 
is a launch and leave missile that flies for a few hundred miles hugging 
the landscape and finally flies with great precision down the centre line 
of the runway whilst ejecting the bomblets causing a row of craters.

Weight - 2825 lbs
Range - 370 miles
Speed - 650 mph

-12-

    ASALM (Advanced Strategic Air Launched Missile)

   Effective against all form of surface target including those of the
highest degree of hardening.  Also able to destroy AWACS type aircraft.
The ASALM has an advanced ram-rocket providing a high degree of 
acceleration during the launch phase at all altitudes.  The guidance
system is highly sophisticated utilising low radar and IR signatures
along with a high-g capability.

Weight - 3100 pounds
Range - 700 miles 
Speed - Mach 3.5 to 4.5

    MAVERICK AGM 1 LASER AND TV

   The latest generation of the Maverick family, the smallest of the fully
guided self-homing ASM's in use.  An improved version of the AGM 65E using
a classified modification of the IR seeker.

Weight - 484 lbs
Range - 25 miles
Speed - Mach 1.6

    CSW (Conventional Stand-Off Weapon)

   Seen by the USAF as the best way to destroy hostile anti-aircraft
defenses and armour moving behind the FLOT (Forward Line of Troops).  It
can distinguish between tanks and low value trucks or decoys and it
is smaller and much cheaper than the MRASM.  It is fitted with a PLSS
(Precision Location Strike System) and has 20 warheads which separate
over an area homing in on particular targets.  These are especially 
effective against formations of tanks and armour.

Weight - 2700 lbs
Range - 30 miles
Speed - Mach 1.1

NOTE: Standard NATO Ground Forces have FOF devices (Friend or Foe), so
aerial launched "smart weapons", such as the CSW and other cruise 
missiles, avoid them.

-13-

MISSIONS

   The enemy vehicles in Retaliator have a dark-grey camouflage, whilst 
your own forces are green/brown.  Enemy Battleships are also dark-grey. 
To differentiate between enemy and friendly aircraft, only enemies show on
your radar.  Similarly, the FOF (Friend or Foe) system prevents you from
launching a missile upon a friendly airborne target.  Note: there are 3 
tanks in 1 battalion, and 3 planes per squadron.  All missions will only 
be deemed complete when your aircraft has completed the mission and 
landed safely at an appropriate base.

AMERICA

1,E -     THE ENEMY COMMAND CENTRE.
          A HOLLYWOOD SET WOULDN'T LOOK
          MORE REALISTIC!
5,G -     THE AIRBASE IS ACCURATELY
          MODELLED ON THE ENEMY'S
          OWN DESIGN.
8,E -     TRUCKS FOUND IN THIS AREA HAVE
          BEEN REMODELLED TO
          SIMULATE ENEMY DESIGNS.

-14-

ARIZONA TEST RANGE MISSIONS

   Mission 1: Hit the two canvas targets in Sector 7B.

   Mission 2: A convoy of retired trucks are moving along the east-west
              highway.  Destroy all trucks in sector 8A-8H.

   Mission 3: Hit the freight trains on the rail-line in Sector A3.

   Mission 4: Destroy the SAM sights and their radar control station in
              Sector 5D.

   Mission 5: Hit the Test Bridge in the Yuscon firing range and avoid the
              electronic SAM simulators located in the area F8.

   Mission 6: Engage the Drone MIG29B Fulcrum Fighters in your vicinity.
              Two must be destroyed.

   Mission 7: Attack the mock-tank formations crossing the Nevada Plains
              in Sector 3A.

   Mission 8: Destroy the industrial complex in Sector 1C.

   Mission 9: Destroy the airbase in Sector 4C and the main runway; drone
              fighters are located at this base.

   Mission 10: Destroy the enemy command centre, avoiding the complex SAM
               network located in Sector 1E.  This is perhaps the most
               difficult mission on the North American test range.

   NOTE: If you destroy any unauthorised targets or civilian property, you
         will be liable to court martial!

PACIFIC MISSIONS

   05.30 hours.  You've just completed the external checks on your
aircraft, sleek and daunting siloutetted against the early morning sky. 
Today it's your turn for the Quick Reaction Alert station.  So you sit
in the cockpit, looking out to sea, scanning the horizon.

   You know they're out there - you can feel them.

   For the tenth time, you decide to check out you new Tactical Life
Support System flight suit that protects you from high altitude plus
nuclear, biological and chemical hazzards.

   Then - the alarm!  Tower reports Bogies!
   Slowly you lower your laser radiation visor.  The war has begun.

-15-

PACIFIC

6,D -     THIS IS WHERE YOU ARE BASED.
6,B -     THE PRECIOUS OIL FIELDS,
          OF PARAMOUNT IMPORTANCE
          TO THE UNITED STATES, ARE
          THE ENEMY'S PRIMARY TARGET.
1,D -     THE ISLANDS IN THIS REGION HAVE
          PLAYED HOST TO THE ENEMY
          BUILD-UP, SPY SATELLITES REPORT
          POSITIVE SIGHTINGS OF MIG-29s IN
          ATTENDANCE.  OTHER AIRCRAFT TYPE
          S MAY OCCUPY THE ISLAND, TOO.
          OPERATIONS IN HIS AREA SHOULD BE
          AWARE OF HIGH DENSITY FLAK DEFENCE.

War Update 1

   1. "Operation Scramble"
   Two bandits have been located in Sector 4D approaching your island
base.  Engage and destroy.

-16-

   2. "Operation Firebolt"
   The enemy has launched an aerial attack on the oil refinery on Vejan
Island (Sector 8D).  Repel the enemy and destroy at least three fighters.

   3. "Operation Drop-in"
   An enemy battleship has been detected in Sector 4G.  Launch a surprise
attack using MSRAM Missiles.  Destroy the battleship but beware of its
defensive radar network.

   4. "Operation Plunge"
   Hit the enemy oil storage depot situated on one of the islands of 
Zahiti (Sector 2E).

War Update 2

   1. "Operation Splash"
   The enemy fleet has launched a full scale amphibious attack on Troy
(Sector 8E) with at least ten landing craft descending on the North Shore.
Destroy the landing craft but keep an eye open for the MIG-29 Fulcrums
flying at top cover.

   2. "Operation Warmup"
   Intelligence reports two enemy frigates are closing from the south 
(Sector 3B) to reinforce the enemy fleet.  Give them a surprise welcome.

   3. "Operation Deep Heat"
   The Leonid Brezhnev fleet carrier has withdrawn from the enemy fleet
but has launched a long range strike force towards in on the Solomos
Islands located in Sector 4B.  Engage and destroy all three hostile 
aircraft.

   4. "Operation Beta-1"
   The gigantic Enemy Super Tanker Azov has to be crippled in a surprise
retaliatory strike in Sector 4G.  MIGs provide aerial cover.

War Update 3

   1. "Operation Revenge"
   The battleship New Jersey has stormed into the scene as two enemy
cruisers, the Kresta 2 and Admiral Zozulya, have engaged her.  Provide
aerial cover against incoming MIGs and engage the cruisers in Sector 7H.

   2. "Operation Arc"
   The enemy has finally launched a full scale attack on Solomos with a
complement in excess of ten ships.  They lie to the south, barraging the 
southern

-17-

coast.  Scramble and destroy the four MIGs providing aerial cover for the 
fleet and hit any enemy ships.

   3. "Operation Strike Back"
   The US fleet has arrived in Sector 5H, steaming towards your island
bastion led by the carrier JF Kennedy.  While the enemy MIGs have their
hands full with the US Task Force, hit the enemy fleet with all you've
got.  Make sure you destroy at least two ships.

   4. "Operation Stamps"
   Destroy the vital enemy gas plant and refinery on Zahiti in Sector 1D.

War Update 4

   1. "Operation Knock-Out"
   The Leonid Brehznev has been sighted in Sector 1G, with a support ship.
Locate and destroy.

   2. "Operation Fight Back"
   After a fierce enemy counter-strike three US ships lie on the sea
bed - the JFK is next on the list.  Provide air support and destroy the 
two enemy battleships in Sector F4.

War Update 5

   "Operation Hand Shake"
   A cease-fire between the two opposing fleets has been agreed.  Peace
talks have been scheduled to take place on the enemy battleship
Leningrad, in Sector 4B.  One aircraft from each side (yourself and a
MIG) has been designated to patrol and enforce the exclusion zone.  
However, intelligence reports that a sabotage attempt, from an unknown
quarter, is imminent.....

-18-

MIDDLE EAST

4,D - A NOTORIOUS TRACKING RADAR
      THAT HAS PROVED TO BE THE
      UNDOING OF MANY A GROUND
      ATTACK MISSION.  A PRIME TARGET.
1,F - THE LAC MI-EL TANK FARM.  SPY
      SATELLITES AND RECENT SR-71 RECCE
      MISSIONS HAVE NOTED A RECENT BUILD
      UP, OF WHAT APPEAR TO BE,
      SOVIET-MADE TANKS.
1,C - ALTHOUGH YOUR FLYING SUIT IS
      DESIGNED TO WITHSTAND CHEMICAL
      WEAPONS THIS CHEMICAL WEAPON
      FACTORY COULD STILL CAUSE
      HAVOC TO GROUND TROOPS

MIDDLE EAST MISSIONS

   You've only just arrived and yet, already, sand fills your oxygen
mask and clogs up the air intakes.  The heat is unbearable and the 
humidity insufferable.  Hardly the most ideal conditions to fight a
two-front war.

   Intelligence has reported the movement of a tank brigade heading for
the border.  After a hurried briefing and the luxury of an ice-cube
to suck during flight

-19-

checks, you clamber up into the cockpit and belt yourself into your
zero-zero Cresta ejection seat.

   The temperature may be soaring, but life's going to become an
awful lot hotter for those tanks.

War Update 1

   1. "Operation Bravo"
   Destroy the tank brigade (comprising three tanks) crossing the border 
in Section 5A.

   2. "Operation Bogie"
   Two MIGs, sighted in Sector 6F, are closing in on your base.  Engage 
and destroy.

   3. "Operation Alpha"
   Destroy the radar tracking station in Sector 4D to provide an aerial
corridor.

   4. "Operation Foxstrike"
   Destroy the road bridge in Sector 3F to hamper the enemy reinforcements.

   5. "Operation Lizard"
   An enemy armoured column comprising of a minimum six trucks and four 
tanks is advancing up the highway in Sector 4C.  Stem the advance and 
obliterate the column.

   6. "Operation Charlie"
   Launch a deep strike attack on the enemy airfield in Sector 2H.

War Update 2

   1. "Operation Moonstruck"
   Hit the industrial works in Sector 3B which provides ammunition to the
Arab forces.

   2. "Operation Rogue"
   The power station in Sector 2F, east of the city is a priority target.

   3. "Operation Pincer"
   Refer to your War Update Map before commencing this mission.  It will
inform you of the whereabouts of two grey enemy tank battalions (totalling
six tanks) which are leading an assault.  Destroy them.

   4. "Operation Torch"
   Destroy the tracking station in Sector 4A.

-20-

   5. "Operation Crossfire"
   Destroy the enemy oil refinery in Sector 1F, including the three 
holding tanks.

War Update 3

   1. "Operation Mayday"
   Three enemy fighters are approaching the capital. Move to Sector 5E 
to engage and destroy the oncoming aircraft.

   2. "Operation Lord"
   Two tank battles are occuring along the front-line.  Stem the enemy 
divisions.  Refer to War Update Map for the battle locations.

   3. "Operation Torture"
   Locate and demolish the rail-bridge in the lower Sector of 3B.

   4. "Operation Romeo"
   Lac Mi-El tank farm in Sector F1 is assembling Russian T-80s
imported in from Russia.  Raze the complex to the ground.

War Update 4

   1. "Operation Heat"
   Although information is limited, it is believed a large enemy road 
convoy (of 10 trucks and tanks), is located around the vicinity of Sector 
1D.  Locate and destroy this convoy.

   2. "Operation Juno"
   A large aerial force is massing over enemy territory and moving
towards the capital.  Their target is uncertain but you must destroy
four bandits whilst preventing attacks upon your base.  Vector south 
to Sector 3G.

   3. "Operation Warrior"
   Destroy the chemical processing plant in Sector 1C, believed to be
developing chemical weapons.

   4. "Operation Gold"
   The greatest tank battle of the war is raging (refer to War Update Map).
Provide aerial support and destroy a minimum of eight tanks.

-21-

War Update 5

   1. "Operation Ajax"
   Miscon has lifted the restriction on bombing the enemy capital in
Sector 1B and surrounding installations.  The international airport in 
Sector 2A is now a primary target.  Destroy the main runway and return 
to base.

   2. "Operation Dawn"
   Destroy the steelworks in Sector 1D, south west of the city.  Do not
inflict damage to the Red Cross hospital based in the compound.

   3. "Operation Zeus"
   The enemy has launched an all-offensive. Enemy reserve armour has
been deployed to the front line (see War Update Map) and is overwhelming
our exhausted armoured divisions.  Provide aerial support and destroy the
lead enemy tank battalion.

   4. "Operation Red"
   Road and rail networks have been badly damage jeopardising supply 
routes.  Shortages to the front line are threatening our positions.  
Provide aerial cover (in Sector 7G) for a large convoy moving from 
Tel-A-Von to the front line against impending MIG attack.

War Update 6

   1. "Operation Standstill"
   The situation is critical with all three country's industries 
smashed.  The massive El Alamein factory (Sector 1A) is the sole 
productive enemy plant.  Avoid the dangerous SAM sites and destroy 
the complex.

   2. "Operation Vice"
   The forces on both sides are reaching exhaustion as the conflict 
becomes a war of attrition.  Fanatical enemy tank brigades are causing
havoc with our resisting ground forces (see War Update Map).  Destroy 
the four leading tanks and the supply vehicles.

   3. "Operation Thunder"
   The beleaguered enemy air-force has gathered via hidden runway
strips and are launching perhaps their last full-scale attack of the
war.  Vector south to Sector 4G to engage and destroy all bogies - 
number unknown.

-22-

War Update 7

   1. "Operation Abyss"
   On this day the war reaches its climax with the outcome unknown.  A
special range of missions exist in this final chapter of the war...

EUROPE

2,D  SAM SITES AND RADAR FORM A 
     SIGNIFICANT THORN IN THE ALLIED
     SIDE.  EXPECT TOPAY THIS AREA A VISIT.
7,H  THIS ENEMY NUCLEAR POWER PLANT IS A
     JUICY TARGET, ESPECIALLY AS THE ENEMY 
     ARE DEPENDENT ON IT FOR THEIR POWER
     RESOURCES.
2,H  THIS FACTORY IS SUSPECTED OF
     BUILDING HIGH PERFORMANCE 
     ENEMY AIRCRAFT.
8,H  ALTHOUGH, ON THE SURFACE,
     A FOOD PROCESSING PLANT
     UNDERCOVER AGENTS HAVE 
     REVEALED THAT ARMS PRODUCTION
     IS ITS MAIN OUTPUT.

EUROPE MISSIONS

   This is it.  Preparation of war and the mobilization of national
armed forces had already been proceeding in the West before the final
outbreak.  Yet the magnitude of the assault when it was first reported
was none the less astounding.  Yet another world war was about to burst
upon mankind - yet the consequences of

-23-

this war were likely to be more far reaching than any before it.

   Fortunately, your squadron had had many years experience operating
from dispersed airfields.  This is where you are now, running towards
your ATF, putting on your flight gear as you run and fight off the
indigestion of a half-eaten burger.  Controlled chaos reigns, anti-
aircraft and ground-to-air SAM positions are being manned.  Ground
crew already swarm over your aircraft.  You dash for the step-ladder
that leads to the cockpit.  There are some uninvited guests on the
way, it'd be a shame not to give them a proper welcome. 

War Update 1

   1. "Operation MiG Cap"
   Zulu Alert: Two incoming MiGs are closing in on your base.  Search, 
engage and destroy.  This is not a drill - repeat - this is not a drill.

   2. "Operation Bomb Cap"
   Three enemy low-level bombers are approaching your base, complete
with escort.  Vector 30 degrees for Bogey - engage and destroy.

   3. "Operation Intercept"
   Two SU27 Flankers are crossing the border and are manoeuvring towards
Huttgart (Sector 8A).  Engage and destroy.

   4. "Operation Tom Cat"
   Destrpy the bandits that are providing aerial support for advancing 
enemy mobile divisions along the border (Sector 4D). 

   5. "Operation Aggressor"
   Provide close support against advancing enemy army tanks (army 
group centre - Sector 6D), near Ziepen.  Destroy two tank brigades 
(6 tanks).

   6. "Operation Firehand"
   Two enemy mobile divisions are engaging the British Seventh Centurion
Tank Division in the north of the country.  Stem the advance and destroy
the leading brigade (Sector 8D).

   7. "Operation Ironhand"
   Provide an aerial corridor along the southern border by destroying 
the three enemy SAM and radar sites near the Stein river (Sector 3D).

   8. "Operation Backbreaker"
   In order to curb enemy rear movements and hamper supply lines, your
primary target is the key bridge - Liepen in Sector 5E.

-24-

   9. "Operation Limelight"
   The road convoys towards the front from Frunsroure, across the Liepen
bridge, must be destroyed (Sector 8F).

   10. "Operation Linebacker III"
   This is a deep strike retalitory mission against the enemy's army 
airfield of Tranevora.  Destroy the runway and hanger areas in Sector
1G.

War Update 2

   1. "Operation Jawbreaker"
   Destroy the bridge in the northern section on the Stein river
(Sector 6D).

   2. "Operation Four Star"
   Destroy the enemy supply dumps (Sector 2F).

   3. "Operation Big Ear"
   Destroy the radar tracking station and the nearby SAM emplacement
(Sector 7E).

   4. "Operation Deep Throat"
   Although the enemy air force has been scattered to regional bases 
across their country, Miscon has detected a large enemy presence near an 
airstrip in Sector 3H.  Destroy any airborne hostiles and the runway.

   5. "Operation Strike Out"
   The enemy has launched its largest offensive of the war against all
air force bases.  Five plus bandits are closing over the border -
heading unknown.  Intercept and destroy.  Vector to Sector 2C.

   6. "Operation Tin Can Alley"
   Provide close air support for allied tank forces against a massive 
enemy assault.  Destroy the two leading enemy battalions (six tanks). 
Refer to War Update Map for battle location.

War Update 3

   1. "Operation Iron"
   Destroy the vital road bridge in Sector 8C, to prevent enemy supplies
reaching the front.

   2. "Operation Titan"
   Large enemy convoys are rallying towards the front.  A vast amount
of armour is moving west (Sector 8G), with pontoons providing river
crossings. 

-25-

Destroy the convoy and return home.

   3. "Operation Snake Eye"
   Ferocious tank battles are continuing in a variety of areas (see 
War Update Map), with French and British Northern Tank Divisions holding 
their ground.  Provide air support against three MiGs and destroy the leading
enemy tank brigades in both battles.

   4. "Operation Grind"
   The enemy's large industrial complex (Sector 5H) provides machine
parts for the enemy's war machine.  Destroying this complex will cause
great shortages to the enemy.

   5. "Operation Lights Out"
   Cripple the riverside power station in Section 5H, destroying the cooling
towers which will disrupt enemy productivity.

   6. "Operation Fly-by"
   A large number of allied interceptors have been downed by an enemy 
MIG 29 Hunting Squadron.  The three ace fighters are operating from the 
Alps in Sector 1D.  This mission is self-explanatory!

War Update 4

   1. "Operation Wolf"
   A new squadron of MIG 29C Fulcrums have been located manoeuvring across
the border towards Nurberg.  Intercept in Sector 5C and break the pack up.

   2. "Operation Avenger"
   A succession of land battles has left the front line NATO forces
exhausted.  Two fresh Warsaw Pact tank divisions are now engaging them
(refer to War Update Map for location).  Halt the enemy attack and destroy
at least ten tanks.

   3. "Operation Thunderbolt"
   Decimate the chemical factory in Sector 7H and its two storage tanks.

   4.  "Operation Bear"
   Attack the arms factory in Sector 2H, avoiding the SAMs located nearby.

   5. "Operation Express"
   Convoys of rail freight are arriving hourly from the east to the enemy 
capital and the battle front.  Destroy the rail-line and any trains in 
Sector 4H.

   6.  "Operation Untouchables"
   A squadron of enemy flanker bombers have destroyed several allied 
storage

-26-

depots near the front line and are closing in on the international 
airport in Sector 7A.  Search and destroy.

War Update 5

   1. "Operation Venus"
   After reinforcing the deleted first army, the enemy's second air 
force has launched the biggest aerial assault yet seen in the war, with
six squadrons of fighters causing havoc to NATO ground forces.  Provide
aerial cover for Huttgart around Sector 7B against three closing MiGs.

   2. "Operation Venus 2"
   Provide aerial cover from Nurbergs industrial complexes against the
ominous threat of the squadron of three MiGs in Sector 4B.

   3. "Operation Counter"
   The massed NATO ground forces are now beeing pinned down by a new
surge of enemy aerial dominance.  Provide cover for the Second US Tank 
Corp in the relevant sector (refer to War Update Map) and destroy any 
opposing tanks.

   4. "Operation Backache"
   Launch a deep strike attack on the last main enemy bridge (Sector 7H)
to cloak the enemy rear guard action.

   5. "Operation Trax"
   The immense tank factory in Sector 8H is the primary target.  Rip out 
the main building.

   6. "Operation Flame"
   The huge storage depot in Sector 8H, located between a hospital and a 
church, has fuel for the Warsaw Pact armies.  Destroy a storage tank and 
return home.

War Update 6

   1. "Operation Burst"
   The hardest mission so far.   Hit the centre line of the international
runway in Sector 6H and engage any scrambled bandits.  Avoid the dense
SAM belts to the west of the base.

   2. "Operation Mercury"
   A rag-tag formation of fighters is closing over the border, towards your
base runway.  Intelligence believes that cruise missiles may be used.  
Intercept and 

-27-

destroy the fighters and bring down any air-launched cruise missiles.

   3. "Operation Man Hunt"
   The remnants of two giant armies are clashing in the relevant sector
(see War Update Map).  Destroy enemy hardware in this battle zone.

   4. "Operation On-Line"
   The nuclear power station south-east of the enemy capital is your 
target.  Destroy the cooling towers and main building, avoiding the 
reactor plant.  This will plunge the enemy into a total black-out in 
Sector 7H.

   5. "Operation Saturn"
   A train carrying new tanks to the front has been located by 
satellite in Sector 7H.  Prevent the tanks from ever reaching the 
battlefield.

   6. "Operation Mars"
   Destroy a heavily defended aircraft factory in Sector 8H has, until
now remained undamaged.  It is producing large numbers of enemy aircraft.

War Update 7 (the final update)

   Your three missions are: 

   No. 1 Saviour.
   No. 2 Retaliator
   No. 3 Hour Glass.

   These missions are all secret to protect the outcome of the war - refer
to War Update Map.

KEYBOARD CONTROLS

   EJECT - Will place the systems into eject mode.  You then have
three seconds to confirm and initiate ejection by pressing the key a 
second time.  If the key is not pressed within the alloted time all 
systems will revert to normal mode.

Note: this key is also used as an 'escape' key on the menu selection
screens to abort/cancel any inputs.

   FRONT - Gives you the cockpit view/display.

   REAR - Presents you the view from the inside rear of the craft.

   LEFT - Displays the view from the left side of the aircraft.

   RIGHT - Displas the view from the right side of the aircraft.

   SATELLITE - Provides an overhead view, taken as from a satellite 
positioned

-28-

at approximately 80,000 FT.  Your aircraft remains at the centre point
in this view.

   SOUTH-FACING - Displays a fixed south-facing external view.

   ZOOM-IN - Allows you to zoom-in towards your aircraft, when using an
external viewpoint.

   ZOOM-OUT - See Zoom-in.

   BEHIND - Gives you an exterior rear-view of the aircraft.

   NORTH-FACING - See South-facing.

   Multi-Function Displays (MFD) 1, 2 & 3 - These keys act as toggles 
between the three different modes on each of the three MFD displays. 
See Instrument Description Section.

   SUPERCRUISE - Provides instant thrust of 100%.  Supercruise normally
used on high-level flights only.

   RPM -/+ - Increases and decreases revs/thrust, pressing shift
doubles speed.

   ECM ON/OFF - Toggles the electronic counter-measures system.  See 
Instrument Description section.

   CHANGE TARGET LOCK - This key will toggle the lock your missile has 
on a particular target. (eg: pressing this key will alternate the lock-
on between each of the three targets).

   PAUSE - Pauses the simulation at any time during flight.. Doesn't
work on head to head.

   WEAPON SELECTION - Pressing this key will cycle through all of the 
weapons systems you have available on-board.  Including the facility to
revert to the normal HUD display - 'non-armed' mode.  The weapon you 
select will be automatically armed and ready for launch.

   AUTOPILOT - This key will toggle between manual flight and autopilot - 
see Instrument Description section.

   STEALTH - Toggles Stealth mode on or off.  See Instrument Description
section.

   FLAPS - Toggles flaps in or out.  See Instrument Description section.

   GEAR - Toggles between lowering and retracting the landing gear. 
See Instrument Description section.

   HUD - This key toggles the HUD display on or off.  See Instrument 
Description section.

   JOYSTICK / KEYBOARD / MOUSE - These keys will select the chosen 
control at any stage during flight.

   BREAK LOCK - This key cancels the lock your weapon may be holding on 
a target.

   COCKPIT - This key 'freezes' all cockpit displays when pressed, although

-29-

functions will continue as normal.  All ESSENTIAL displays will remain 
visually active.  Press this key again to unfreeze.

   BRAKES - Toggles the brakes on or off.  See Instrument Description 
section.

   FIRE/TRIGGER - Emulates the Joystick Fire/Mouse LH buttons and fires 
the appropriate weapon, if armed.  Note: with certain wepaons, it is
necessary to wait for them to achieve lock-on to a target - an 
appropriate symbol will appear in the HUD:  See HUD diagram.

   LEVEL WINGS - This will automatically recover you from any 
dangerous stalls, rools, etc.  The aircraft will revert to a neutral
, straight-and-level position.

   CHAFF - Releasing chaff 'blinds' enemy radar and radar-guided missiles.

   FLARE - Releasing flares divert infra-red-guided missiles.

DIRECT FLIGHT CONTROLS

Cursor-up key/Joystick up/Mouse up               - Lower the nose

Cursor-down key/Joystick down/Mouse down         - Elevate the nose

Cursor-left key/Joystick left/Mouse left         - Bank Left

Cursor-right key/Joystick right/Mouse right      - Bank Right

Space-bar/Joystick fire/Mouse Left Button        - Launch/Fire

THE NEXT GENERATION COCKPIT SYSTEM (ECOP) 

INSTRUMENT DESCRIPTION

1. The Auto-Pilot

   Turns the auto-pilot on or off.  When operative the light is on
green.  It guides you back to the combat area by constantly updating
a target heading depending on your position.

-30-

2. Brakes

   Whilst on the ground the brake key turns the landing gear brakes on 
and off - in the air it turns the airbrakes on or off.  When the air 
brake is extended or the gearbrake is on, the brake light will appear 
green.  If the brake light is red then the brakes are not operative, 
or are damaged.  If you exceed 70 rpm on the ground whilst the brakes 
are engaged, the landing gear will incur damage.

3. Flaps

   The flap key moves the wing flaps in and out.  When the flaps are 
out, the aircraft slows down, gains lift and reduces stall speed.  When
out, the green flaps light will appear.  High speeds can ripoff the 
flaps if they are extended, causing serious wing damage above 360 mph. 
A yellow light will warn you if you exceed 260 mph.  Fatal damages are
indicated in red text.

4. Landing Gear

   The green landing gear light will appear when the gear is extended
and in the landing position.  When the gear is retracted the light is 
extinguished.  If you exceed 320 mph with extended landing gear you
will seriously damage your it.  At 240 mph a yellow caution light will 
appear.  If this occurs, you should either raise your gear or slow down 
to prevent any further damage.  A red light indicates fatal damage or 
failure to your gear.

Systems Analysis

   5. Master Arm Light

   Lights up when a selected weapon is armed and ready for launch (see
weapons).

   6. Stall Light

   A stall occurs when the angle-of-attack becomes too acute.  Unstable 
air flows over the wing surfaces and reduces lift which generally causes 
the nose to drop.  Stall speed varies in different circumstances 
depending on the aircraft's flaps and attitude.

NOTE: The F22 and F29 computer system recovers from stalls automatically -
all you need do is level out and bring your pitch back to normal.


-31-

   7. RPM Bar

   Indicates the degree of thrust.  Each small bar represents 10% 
increments of thrust.  To change thrust press the thrust key (see 
keyboard).  More thrust consumes fuel quicker.

   8. The Fuel Bar

   Indicates the quantity of remaining fuel present in the three 
internal fuel tanks of each aircraft.  This is represented in 
increments of 1000 lbs for each small bar shown (if external fuel 
tanks are carried the fuel in these is used first and then the empty 
tanks ejected).

Warning Indicators (Yellow - Caution, Red - Danger).

   9. Fire

   This light will flash red when firs occurs - it is not recoverable 
and the pilot must eject.

   10. Fuel (low)

   A yellow caution light will appear when indicators show less than
2,000 lbs of fuel.  A red flashing light will below 500 lbs and a 
solid red light and a message will appear below 200 lbs.

   11. Engine

   If RPM falls below 50% (eg: due to partial engine damage) a yellow
light appears.  If severe engine damage occurs, the light will flash 
red and the pilot will have to eject.  Partial engine damage allows 
you to limp back to base, but can become worse if left unchecked.  A 
solid red light represents turbine failure.

   12. Altitude

   If you fly below 500 ft a yellow altitude warning light will appear.
Below 200 ft a red light will show.

   13. Radar

   If the radar is damaged or is faulty, a yellow caution light will 
appear.  If it is totally damaged or destroyed a red light will be
displayed.

-32-

   14. WEP (Weapon Damage)

   If the weapon system is damaged or jams, an appropriate warning 
light will appear.

   15. COM (Communications)

   If communication faults occur, a yellow warning light will be 
displayed.  If fatal and irreparable faults occur a red light will 
appear.  Note: The F29 and F22 have a computer self-diagnostics test.
In some cases it is able to track down and repair faults.  E.g. some 
problems on RAD, WEP and COM.

   16. Messages

   Various text information is provided on this display, eg. the type 
of enemy missile approaching, etc.

ENEMY THREAT PANEL

   17. Lock

   If a lock is fixed on your plane by enemy radar a relevant light 
will appear.  You can attempt to break the lock with ECM and chaff.
Initiating "stealth" procedures may help, too.

   18. LNCH

   When an enemy missile launch occurs then there is a large, bright
flashing launch light.

   19. RWR (Radar Warning Receiver)

   Indicates threats to a range of 24 miles, ie: SAMs and enemy 
aircraft.  When a "threat object" appears to the rear of your aircraft
an audio signal will sound.  NOTE: RWR still operates in "Stealth" 
mode, as it receives but does not emit.

   20. Threat

   When the on-board ECM equipment detects a Fansong signal (Russian 
SAM Radar Signals), you are presented with a yellow missile "threat"
light and audio tone.  If you are detected and the enemy radar has a
target, the missile warning light will flash and the tone will warble.

-33-

   21. Stealth

   Limited radar cloaking is available which makesthe aircraft radar 
invisible if you fly slowly and low and reduce all radar emissions 
from your craft, i.e radar shutdown.  You can still be detected visually 
but it is a lot safer.  An indicator shows how vulnerable you are to 
radar emission.  Note: The radar and maps have a freeze mode, 
displaying a target and its position whilst all radars are shut down.

   22. ECM (Electronic Counter Measures Radar Jammer)

   When activated the ECM light appears.  The ECM "blinds" radar guided
missiles and stops them homing in on your plane.  ECM is more efficient
at long range.

   23. Engine Ignition Light

   Appears after power-up.  It is extinguished when RPM reaches 20%.

The Multi-Function Displays Units

   24. Systems

   Provides flight details for fuel, RPM, Speed and Altitude.

   25. Weapon Selection Screen

   Indicates type and number of weapons.  In addition, weapons armed 
/selected and the remaining amount of chaff/flares are also shown.

   26. Beyond Visual Range Radar

   Is used for the medium and long range air to air missiles.  The BVR's
range exceeds that of the horizontal radar.  Therefore it is capable of
illuminating enemy aircraft invisible to the "Mk.1 Eyeball".

-34-

   27. Forward Looking Radar

   Provides an infra-red display of an adversary.  Data on the type of
plane, its bearing and speed is displayed.

   28. Missile FLIR and TV

   Provides a cockpit display of what the CSW, Maverick, MRASM and
ASALM sees via TV and forward looking infra-red cameras.  This is relayed
directly to the cockpit showing the missile closing in on its target in
3-D perspective.

   29. Horizontal Indicator

   Supplies the pilot with information on the degree of roll from left
to right.

   30. Horizontal Situation Radar (HSR)

   HSR provides a cross sectional view of the aircraft plus its
surrounding area, with a variable range indicator.  Locations of SAMs 
and/or enemy planes, within its 40 mile range, are also provided.

   31. Satellite Radar (Moving map display)

   This shows a digital map of the world, 40 miles around you.  It 
provides terrain locations of all enemy bases, factories and road/rail 
networks.

   32. MMD (Moving map display with direction finder)

   This is a computer generated display above the moving map which 
shows the directions of the plane with a line indicator.

-35-

The Head-Up-Display (HUD)

The HUD can be toggled on and off (see keyboard).  This will constantly
display: heading, air speed, altitude, "G-loading", weapon selected/ 
number remaining and the flight equipment currently in use.  Other 
symbols that will appear when appropriate are: gun sight and missile 
sights. See diagram below for layout details.

-36-

-37-

SIMPLE CONTROL OF YOUR ATF

   Here follows a very breif outline of how to take off, land and, in 
simple terms, control your aircraft.  For a more in-depth view on the 
function of other equipment, such as flaps, brakes, etc, please refer 
to section headed, 'Instrument Description'.

   Takeoff

1. Power-up and build thrust up to 50%.
2. Release the brakes and steer slowly along the runway.
3. Increase thrust to 80-90% to eventually attain a take off speed of
approximately 200 mph.
4. Pull gently back on the 'stick', which lifts the nose.  After the
plane lifts off the ground, retract landing gear before you exceed
300 MPH.

   Level Flight

   To achieve 'level' flight, raise or lower the nose until the
Ladderbar (in the HUD) indicates 0 degrees.

   Lift

   All other variables being equal, the amount of lift generated upon
your aircraft.  Reducing speed reduces lift, making the craft descend.
Increasing speed increases altitude.

   'G'-Loading

   Sometimes known as Centrifugal Force, g-force is the effect upon you
and your aircraft following the acceleration of gravity.  g-force
varies according to speed and angle of bank of the aircraft.  If g-force
reaches 7-8 tunnel vision or "grey-out" may occur.  If g-force exceeds
8, you will be subjected to 'Blackout'.  Negative g-force can occur
when the aircraft's nose is lowered during a high speed and/or high
angle ascent.  If a high negative g figure is registered (approximately
-3), then you will be prone to 'Red-out', as the blood rushes to your 
head. G-force is displayed upon the HUD.

   Altitude

   The maximum altitude of the ATF is 75,000 feet (which is the 
approximate height of the generated satellite view).  To evade radar 
detection, you will need to fly at between 200 - 300 ft above the 
ground or sea level (dependant on the environment you are over).

   Ladderbar

   Portrayed on the HUD, the Ladderbar indicates the angle of your 
aircraft in relation to the horizon.  Hence, the zero level indicator 
signifies 'level' flight.  Note that the Ladderbar pitch lines are 
always parallel to the horizon.  So during bank, the Ladderbar will 
change angle accordingly within the HUD.  The Ladderbar is shown in 
increments and decrements of 10 degrees.

   Landing

   1. Straighten the aircraft using the centre line of the runway as a
reference.  Maintain a speed of around 300 mph and a height of between 
1500 - 2000 ft.  Lift the nose slightly to maintain level flight.
   2. On approach, descend down to around 300 ft and reduce airspeed to
around 200 mph, lowering your flaps.  It is advisable to lower your
landing gear at this point.  Remember to keep the centreline of the
runway directly ahead of you, (ie: as your central focal point of
reference.
   3. When your wheels touch the runway, reduce the throttle to zero and
push forward on the joystick in order to lower the nosewheel down to the 
ground.
   4. Apply the brakes and when the craft stops completely, the mission
you have just undertaken is complete.

SCORING

   In this simulation, there is no automatic promotion.  It is up to your
discretion to decide whether you are skilful or experienced enough to
promote yourself to the relevant rank.  Your achievements will be based 
on the rank you have selected.  If 1st. Lt. is taken as the 'base' rank.
It is at this rank that you should become familiar with the simulation,
to encourage this you are presented with infinite weapons.   Captain 
will be awarded twice as many points for the mission.  Major,

-39-

three times as many.  Lt Col. five times and Colonel seven times as 
much.  It must be borne in mind, though, that the higher rank you 
select, the more difficult will the mission be to complete.  Scores 
are given after each mission and Awards (if applicable) after each 
War Update, although promotions will automatically be awarded before 
each War Update.  Different missions will attain different scores
 - you will be awarded proportionally more points the further you 
progress into the war.  However, indiscriminate and deliberate assaults
upon civilian centres (eg: schools, churches, hospitals, etc) is liable
to court martial.

MEDALS

1. PURPLE HEART - awarded if injured or killed in action.

2. AIRMANS MEDAL (AM) - awarded after War Update 1.

3. DISTINGUISHED FLYING CROSS (DFC) - awarded after War Update 2.

4. SILVER STAR (SS) - awarded after War Update 3.

5. AIRFORCE CROSS (AFC) - awarded after War Update 4.

6. MEDAL OF HONOUR (MOH) - awarded after War Update 5.

MODEM OPTION: Head to Head

THE MODEM OPTION IS NOT AVAILABLE ON AMIGA.

-40-

Corrections to the Manual

A. Page 6, The Enrolment Data Bank
Here you enrol in the USAF and select your rank.  The ranks are available
from lowest to highest as follows:  First Lieutenant, Captain, Major, 
Lieutenant Colonel, and Colonel.  The higher the rank you select, the
more variety of missions will be available.  More points are awarded to
the higher rank for the same mission.  Missions will also be harder (see
scoring).  Sign in and click OK or ENTER to confirm your name.

B. Page 7, Main Selection Screen
LOAD PILOTS LOG, selection of this option will load the previously
saved pilots log.
C. Page 9, Weapons and Stores
Armaments may also be selected and deselected by clicking on the weapon
name.
D. Page 30, Level Wings
This command will only level the wings and not revert the aircraft back
to level flight from stalls.
Page 35, Horizontal Situation Radar (HSR)
Blue and green dots will appear on the HSR.  Blue dots are enemy targets
and threats below your aircraft.  Green dots are threats above your 
aircraft.
Page 38, Lift
Increasing speed will not cause aircraft to lift.
Page 39, Altitude
52,000 feet is the maximum altitude of the ATF.

                                 SKID ROW

