


          The RAZOR 1911 School of the Video Gamer's Impaired

                      Course 1911 : Obitus



If you are reading this file then you must be 1 of the 73% in the idiot
crowd that could not figure out how to play this average run-of-the-mill
adventure game. This file will explain how to get started and get you
to the first dungeon you need to explore.

FIRST:

You are standing in front of a KEY. Thats right, the big chunk of silver
on the ground in front of you! CLICK on PICK and then move the hand over
the glob of metal on the floor (KEY you IDIOT!) and CLICK again to add it
to your inventory. WOW! You did it! You got the key!

SECOND:

MOVE WEST either with your joystick or click on [ W ] in the direction
box in the lower middle portion of the screen. You will be standing in
front of an huge oak door (actualy it is plywood). CLICK on USE and
drag the hand over to the little keyhole located in the center of this
menacing door. I know you have been sweating up till now, but you can
grab a towel because the door in front of you should be open by now.  If
not, you truely are a fuck-up and are beyond help!

THIRD:

MOVE NORTH to exit the gigantic tower you were stuck in all this time!  The
disk will load and decompress the data and soon you will be standing in 
front of a tree.

FOURTH:

When you are starting in the forest, you will be facing NORTH-WEST. Every
time you MOVE EAST you will be facing one more cardinal direction in the
direction you move. I.E.- If you are facing NORTH and you MOVE EAST, you
will now be facing NORTH EAST. If you move EAST again, you will be facing
EAST. Got it?
Now, MOVE EAST and MOVE EAST again. You should be facing an open path in
the forest. MOVE NORTH (also means FORWARD) or push up on your joystick
until you find a pack of sticks lying on the ground (ARROWS!). CLICK on
PICK and move the hand over to the picture of the arrow pack. CLICK on
the arrows and they will be added to your inventory. If you ever want
to get some detailed information about the objects, move the arrows located
to the right of the object window either up or down to select object, then
click in INFO and move the hand over to the object in the window. You
will now be in the info selection screen. You can now check how much weight
something is and what quantity of that object you have left.


These are the first few steps you should do to get you started in this
relatively simplistic game. Now just roam around the forest and pick
up any objects you may find in the forest. When you see archers or 
knights you may want to TALK with them first. You may also trade with them
by clicking on INFO and then click on the figure in front of you. It will
display information about the character and you can click on trade and
then the object you wish to trade. You will want to find the woman who
gives you the keys (needed for Drakehurst's Castle). Then you will want
to get the blue gem from the woman in the upper part of the forest as well.
After you supply up, find the road that leads to the Eldon Mines. You
will have to run and jump over arrows in this sequence but when you get to
the end, you enter the dungeon of the mines. If you get this far then you
obviously do not need to read a doc file such as this!

If you need more help than is provided in this text file, call THE PITCH
for more help.  For a discounted rate of $49.95 you will recieve full
instruction and online help. An optional $19.95 and we will supply you with
a 30 minute VHS or BETA videocassette showing a walk-through of this 
magical and enchanting game.

THE PITCH - Razor 1911 WHQ - 703/569-8477

Zodact & ROMKernal
