Pacman v0.9B Documentation, Version 1.0B.
Author:        Jeroen Knoester
Creation date: 03/07/2000

Contents:

    Version Info
    Terms of usage / liscense
    Installing Pacman
    File info
    Credits & Acknowledgements
    Running Pacman
    Playing Pacman
    Removing Pacman
    Contacting Power Programs

An Amiga-Guide and HTML version of this documentation will be
written one day.

Version info:

Version 0.9 Beta
This version of Pacman is not yet complete. Expect semi-regular
updates.

The following features are not implemented at all:

-   End of game. ( The game loops )
-   Extra game mode.
-   High score.
-   Levels on disk.
-   Intro sequence.

The following features are only partially implemented:

-   Different difficulty levels / multiple speeds.
-   Loading different gfx/sound 'sets'.
-   There is only 1 level. Levels are currently hard coded and can 
    only be changed by editing the source code.

The Following bugs are known:

-  The ghosts do not act properly when moving through the tunnel.
-  Pacman does not immediatly pick up the dot he is positioned 
   over when a new level starts.
-  When choosing difficulty level, the text is sometimes misformed.

For further version info see history.txt. All changes are
recorded there.


Terms of usage / liscense:

In the following disclaimer "The author" represents the main
programmer on this product, in this case: Jeroen Knoester.

In the following disclaimer "THE SOFTWARE" represents the
software package Pacman, including, but not limited to,
the executable code, the documentation and any datafiles.

    The author makes no warranties, conditions or representations express
    or implied, with respect to THE SOFTWARE, its quality, merchantability
    or fitness for any particular purpose. THE SOFTWARE is provided "AS IS".
    In no event shall the author be liable for any special, indirect or
    conseqeuntial damages.

Pacman is free software, wich means:

Pacman can be used, copied, edited, remade, etc. As long as the
original authors, package name and these terms are clearly mentioned
in the documentation of the so-changed software.

It also means that all source and datafiles are available for
free and should have been included in this package.

Remember, Pacman is (C) 1999-2000 Jeroen Knoester / Power Programs.

Now, Have fun!


Installing Pacman:

Installing Pacman is simple: just copy all the files to a
directory on your harddisk. The easiest way to do this is by just
dragging the disk icon onto your harddisk. A directory Pacman
will then be made automatically.


File info:

To avoid virus infection, The executable sizes will now be given:

Main executable:   Pacman  - 89656 Bytes.


Credits & Acknowledgements:

Pacman was made & designed by the following people:

Jeroen Knoester - Code, Graphics, Sound, Concept & Idea.
Mark Janssen - Beta-testing, debugging.
Alex Lacle - Beta-testing, gameplay suggestions.
Bart Ronteltap - Beta-testing.

A special thank you goes to the following people:

Marc Iburg - For testing Pacman on his 68060 based machine.
Richard van dijk - For testing Pacman on his A500.

And anybody I've forgotten.


Running Pacman:

Running Pacman is simple. Make sure you have about 300-400 KB
of free ram, mostly chip-ram available. The double click the pacman
icon.

Kickstart 2.0+ is highly recommended.


Playing Pacman:

Is simple. Use the joystick to move pacman about and eat all the dots.
Avoid the ghosts and collect bonusses for extra points. The big pills
make you able to eat the ghosts, but only for a short time.

Notes for PAL / NTSC:

Pacman is a PAL-only game. The game screen is too big to fit on 
a NTSC based amiga.

If you own a NTSC amiga with KS2.04 or up, you may be able to get
the screen to display as PAL. ( you need to select PAL mode in
the early startup-screen as well as select a PAL monitor display.
If this does not work, you might try one of the various
'degraders' around, to get a PAL display. )


Pacman options:

On the title screen, you can move the arrows around with the joystick 
and make a selection with the fire button. Since the different difficulty
levels are not fully implemented, it is recommended you only choose
either 'begin' or 'quit'.

Some extra notes:

While playing, pressing fire quits the game.

On easy mode, you get an extra life every 10000 points.
On medium mode you get an extra life at 10000, 30000 and 60000 points.
On hard mode you get an extra life at 60000 points only.

Bonuses:

There are various fruity ( and not so fruity ) bonus items to collect,
for a variety of points. Up to 10000 points can be earned eating these,
so watch out for them!

Removing Pacman:

Pacman does not edit any system resources and does not alter
any system files, nor has it any entry in the system environment.

Pacman can be removed by simply deleting the directory in wich
it was installed.

Contacting Power Programs:

You can e-mail Power Programs at: jeroen@infothuis.nl
You can send snail-mail to:

Power Programs,
Candidaschouw 20
2726 KB, Zoetermeer
Holland.

Our homepage is at http://www.infothuis.nl/jeroen/
          or at http://www.infothuis.nl/jeroen/PowerPrograms.html

