
                         Docs to   JUMPING JACK son

                     by Captain Napalm! of the T.O.I.


     This is by no means an all inclusive file for this game, it is rather my 
lonely meanderings through the game for a few hours...  With that in mind... 

INTRODUCTION
------------
     Seems the whole purpose of the game is to get all the record players 
spinning at the same time.  The only real obstacles being the killer musical
instruments that chase you to your pummling.
     The sound on this game is basically fantastic and the graphics are not
bad.  Read the Top 1000 for some interesting facts and details about the game.
The joystick is the easiest to use throughout the game.  The one command that 
I have found to be universal throughout is 'E' which aborts any operation and 
returns to the menu screen.  If you use the keyboard commands, you have to 
press the key, not just tap it, or else it will not always respond.  One thing
I have noted is that the game tends to crash if I touch my numeric keypad and 
occasionally for no apparent reason but it could just be the fact that I have
a Mega. 

THE MENU
--------
     These are the commands that I have found:

     F1,F2                -  Either of these will turn off the sound but you
                                must use the same button to turn the sound
                                back on.
     F3                   - Change hz.
     1                    - Down and select.
     2-6,9,10             - Select when moved.
     7                    - Move right and select.
     SHIFT, ALT, CAPSLOCK - Select.
     Arrow keys           - Move pointer.
     Joystick             - Move pointer.
     Button               - Select.
     Waiting              - Preset routine.

     On the main menu there are six options.  Starting from the top, left to
right:  The first is the number of players, it's set at one, select it to
change it to two player mode and again to return to single player (duh...).
The second is which game you want to play, Game A or Game B.  The start button
is there for you to start your game...  On the bottom row:  Password.   You
are given a password if you win on the challenge level.  The first password
is 'KAYLEIGH' which allows you to start the game on level five instead of
level one.  Be warned, on the challenge level once you have passed over a
sqare you cannot go back across it.  Next to the right is the demo option, it
has a lot of what I have encountered so far in the game wrapped up neatly.
Check it out if you have time.  The last option is for the Top 1000.  Yes, the
top 1000 players.  Read this whenever, they do have somethings interesting in
there.

GAME PLAY
---------
     These are the commands that I have found:

     F1,F2      - Either of these will turn off the sound, but you must use the 
                    same button to turn the sound back on.
     F3         - Change hz.     
     F10        - Abort game.
     E          - Abort game.
     SHIFT      - Place or get a tape.
     Button     - Place or get a tape.
     HELP       - Show board.
     Arrow keys - Move the guy.
     Joystick   - Move the guy.

     Alright, in the very lower, left hand corner it tells you if you're 
player one or two.  Above that are three small color bars, these bars tell you 
what record colors you have left to clear.  They will either be wide or thin. 
When they are wide you still need to get those colored records.  The music 
gets real funky after all the record players are spinnings.  Next to those two
things is a juke box, the color of the center is the color of the record you
are holding.  Whenever you get two juke boxes side-by-side this means you can
carry more than one record at a time.  This can be useful.  To the right of
that are three tapes, those are there to stop the instruments.  You put the
tape down by pressing the joystick button (or SHIFT key) and retrieve it again
the same way if it hasn't dissappear.  To the right again is your score and
below that what level you are currently playing and of course the little faces
represent the number of your lives.

     Playing the game is very simple.  All you do is hop on top of the colored 
sqares until they are all the same color.  If there is a record player on the 
level that isn't spinning of the same color then a record will appear.  You 
pick up this record and go to the record player and hop on to the same space 
as the record player which will set it spinning.  After all the record players 
are spinning you get on top of a sqare with the checkered surface and you will 
proceed to the next level.
     Along the way things will appear that you can get for extra points 
(i.e. soda, hamburger, pizza).  Note the great sound effects.  To make your 
life miserable there will be an instrument chasing you (after level 1 on
Game A).  The instruments that I have seen have been the :  trumpet, cymbals, 
chello or something like it, and then a drum.  When an instrument is next to 
you it will sound, which is a warning that you are about to get wailed on.
     The first three instruments will chase you, but the drum is a special 
case.  When it comes, it will come from the top or the bottom of the screen, 
your screen will flash, and you will hear a drum beat.  It doesn't follow you, 
it comes on randomly, but, it occupies three sqares and if you don't move 
quickly it will get you.
     There are ways to prevent the instruments from wasting you, first, you 
can use a tape.  When you put a tape down and move off of your space, it acts 
like a barrier to the instrument.  Sometimes they will go off another 
direction and you can get your tape back, but sometimes you had better run 
while you can.  They only last for so long and then they dissappear.  Remember 
to drop or get a tape you press your button (or the SHIFT key).  The other way 
will be in the next paragraph or so.

     Along with the little colored and checkered boxes, there are four other 
kinds that I have encountered.  There are the transporter spaces.  They have a
yellow, then green, then red vertical strip.  When you step on them you can
get to other areas that are not otherwise connected.  There are also
transporters with a '?' in the center of the box.  These transport you to a
random location.  The other kind of box is the one with the musical staff
with the treble clef sign and the two eighth notes.  As far as I have seen
they serve no other purpose than to show how many groups of colored blocks
are there (there is one by every set).  Then there are treadmills or
whatever that move in one direction.  You can only move over one if you are
crossing it at it's side or if you are go in it's direction.  Lastly there are 
transparent spaces.  It looks like there's a border and you can't continue 
when you can.  I believe they first show up on level eight.
     There are also other items that can be picked up such as shades,
walkmans, juke boxes, pills, notes, and leather jackets.  The shades make the
instrument run away from you.  The walkmans have done two things, when you get
one, if your hair flashes, then you don't have to worry about the instrument
catches you, it won't affect you, but once your normal again your free game.
The other thing that has happened is that the little color bar at the lower
left side of the screen will start flashing.  If this happens then whatever
colored square you step on, all the squares in that group will turn that color
and you will be able to get the record.  The juke box will double up the
little icon on the bottom of the screen so you can carry more than one record
at once.  The pills will put the instruments to sleep for a short time.  I
don't see any purpose for the notes, they don't effect your score.  I could
venture a guess that they are some how invovled in the hidden levels (more on
them down there) but I cannot be sure.  The leather jackets are VERY IMPORTANT.
These are extra lives for the morons who can't avoid an inanimate object which
is chasing you.  You can also get another life every 5,000 points.

     In the game there is mention of secret levels.  I have found nothing
that migh open a secret level. Although I have played a couple of them, I 
don't know how I activated them.  All I really know is that they opened
inbetween two levels.  When it is activated you are presented with two
options, continue with the next level and play level A.  Level A is the hidden 
level.  All things are exactly like they are on any normal level.  

TOP 1000
--------
     These are the commands I have found:

     Function keys - Goto that part of the 1000 (i.e. F1 = beginning)
     ESC           - Scroll speed up while paging up.
     1,2,4-0       - Scroll speed down while paging down.
     3             - Freeze scroll while paging down.
     SPACE         - Freeze background scrolling.
     SHIFT         - Page in direction of scroll.
     RETURN        - Main Menu.
     E             - Main Menu.
     Arrow Up/Down - Scroll speed up/down.
     Arrow Rt/Left - Freeze scroll.
     Joystick Up/D - Scroll speed up/down.
     Button        - Page down or freeze if paging down.

END NOTES
---------
     I have only made it up to level nine at this point.  So there is no doubt 
much left unsaid.  I'm still baffled by the hidden levels, but I'll still be 
looking...  After a while this game gets tough, it would be nice if some 
dedicated hacker would make a trainer for us <hint>.  I hope this has been of 
some use.


Captain Napalm!
