                         Pool of Radiance Data Card 
              ----------------------------------------------------

 System requirements:
 -------------------

 This game will run on any Amiga computer with a minimum of 1 meg of RAM, a
single floppy drive, anda monitor. The game is compatible with Kickstart
1.2 or higher. You can use either the keyboard or the mouse.

 The game requires approximately 2 megabytes on a hard disk. Because the
game can use up to 800K of RAM at any time we do not recommend playing off
the hard drive unless you have more than 1 megabyte of RAM. Because the
game is 100% memory resident after loading there is little difference
between playingoff the disks and playing off the hard drive.

 Before you begin, make backup copies of your disks following the
instructions that came with your system and put the originals away for
safekeeping. Be sure the identifier for Disk 1 is "Poolgame" and Disk 2 is
"Pooldata". Write protect the copies before you play. You will need to make
a save disk as detailed later.

 Hard Drive Installation:
 -----------------------

 The game requires 2 megabytes of memory on the hard drive. Boot your
system to the workbench. Insert Disk 1 of Pool of Radiance and double click
on the disk icon. Double click on the icon labelled "Pool-to-HD". A screen
will come up that allows you to modify the identifier for the hard drive.

 The default is DH0:. If you wish to change the identifier click on the box
and enter the new identifier. When you are ready to install, click on the
"GO" selector. The game will be installed on the hard drive in a directory
called Pool_of_Radiance. When you have completed the installation, close
the installation window, remove the disk(s) from the disk drive(s) and
reboot your system. The game will be ready to play.

 To Start the Game:
 -----------------

 Turn on your monitor and follow the instructions appropriate to your
system.

  -Floppy Disk:
 
  Insert Disk One into the internal drive and then turn on the computer.
(A1000 users, remember to boot using your Kickstart disk first, then insert
Disk One when prompted for the Workbench disk). The game will begin
automatically.

   -Hard Drive:

   Boot the game to Workbench and open a CLI/Shell window. Change the
directory to the game directory by typing CD Pool_of_Radiance. From there,
type Execute Program to begin the game. Assoon as you have completed the
copy protection question (CRACKED BY SKIDROW!) and the first menu comes you
must set the Save path. To do this choose the Load Save Game option from
the menu. Enter "SAVE/" when the requester appears and press <return>.

   -Workbench/CLI:

   The game is not designed to run from the Workbench or from the CLI.
 
   Note: The game will run from the CLI if it has been installed on the
         Hard Drive as noted above.

  Copy Protection:
  ---------------

    CRACKED BY SKIDROW!!!!

  Getting Started Quickly:
  -----------------------

  Use the pregenerated part of characters saved as saved game A on Disk
One. These characters start at the very beginning of the game, but they
have been equipped and the spellcasters have memorized their spells.

  Loading the Pregenerated Party:
  ------------------------------

  At the first game screen after the copy protection screen (CRACKED BY
SKIDROW!), choose the Load Saved Game option. A requester will appear
asking for the path to the save disk (in order to load the pregenerated
party you must tell the game where the party is located). The default save
path is to the POOLSAVE disk. After the save path requester appears, insert
Disk One into DF0: and type in the path "DF0:SAVE/". Save game "A" will
appear. Load the saved game by typing "A" or clicking on the "A". The game
will automatically load and place you at the entrance to the Slums in the
city of Phlan.

  Because the pregenerated party comes with spells and equipment, you may
enter the Slums immediately.

  Saving Games to Floppy Disk:
  ---------------------------

  Initialize a disk and name it "POOLSAVE" using the "Rename" command on
the Workbench screen.

  When you choose the Save Game option in the game a requester will appear
asking for the path to save the games, the default is "POOLSAVE:" so just
place the "POOLSAVE" disk in DF0: and press <return>. If there is an error
on saving, enter the save path as "POOLSAVE:"

  You may have up to ten saves on a single disk. You also may save over
previously saved games which you do not want to keep. If you run out of
saves, you may begin using another blank, formatted "POOLSAVE" disk.
However, you may onlt use one save game disk for each time you boot the
system. If you use two or more "POOLSAVE" disks during a single game play,
you risk possible system crashes.

  Saving Games to Hard Drive:
  --------------------------

  If you are playing off of a hard drive, and with to save games on the
hard disk you must make a save directory in the Pool_of_Radiance directory.

  To do this, open a SHELL/CLI window and change directories to the
Pool_of_Radiance directory. Type Makedir Save.

  When you shoose the Save Game option in the game a requester will appear
asking for the path to save games. If you set the save path as noted in 'To
Start the Game - Hard Drive' just press <return>. The games will be saved
in the directory called SAVE inside the game directory, so keep in mind
that you are limited to just ten saves.

  Mouse:
  -----

  You may use the mouse at any time except when prompted to answer a
question which requires keyboard input. To give commands with the mouse,
move the pointer over the option you wish to choose and click the Left
Mouse Button. In some menus, you may have to click once on the item to
highlight it and then click on the SELECT command at the bottom of the
screen.

  Keyboard:
  --------

  To select a command using the keyboard, press the highlighted letter of
the desired command.

  Using Menus:
  -----------

  Most options in the game are selected using horizontal or vertical menus.
Horizontal menus generally select actions such as casting spells and
readying items. Vertical menus generally select the item to be acted upon,
such as the spell to be cast or item to be readied.
 
  To access menus with the keyboard, use the up and down cursor controls
for vertical menus and the "Hot Key" letters for horizontal menus. Press
<return> to make selections.

  Moving:
  ------

  The part will move in three modes: 3D/area, Overland, and Combat.
Targeting spells and ranged weapons during combat is similar to moving
characters. to move, select the Move option from the bottom of the screen
and then give the directional commands using the numeric keypad as follows:

  -Keyboard Movement:

                       ^   ^   ^
                        \  |  /
                         7 8 9
                      <--4 5 6-->
                         1 2 3
                        /  |  \
                       v   v   v

  -Mouse Movement:

   To move in the 3D/area mode with a mouse, click the mouse at the edges
of the display window in the direction you want to face. Clock when the
mouse is a forward arrow to move forward.

   To use the mouse in Overland movement, simply click when the mouse
pointer indicates the direction you wish to move.

   To use the mouse in Combat, follow the instructions for the Overland
movement.

  Rules Errata:
  ------------

  Charmed monsters will not join your party but they will fight on your
side for one batle. Evil clerics turn undead, they do not charm them to
join your party. If you find "The Manual of Bodily Health" you can use it
to raise your constitution. To use this go to an Inn. READY and USE the
Manual. Immediately rest for 31 UNINTERRUPTED days. Your CON will increase
by 1.

  Amiga Specific:
  --------------

  The following items are Amiga only and are not in the Rule Book or
Adventurer's Journal.

    Right Mouse Button:

    Acts the same as the EXIT command from the menus.
    In combat, pressing this key will take back a move, but will not erase
    any damage taken during the move.

    ESC:

    Performs the same function as the right mouse button.

    F6:

    Will set the entire party to AUTO, or computer control for combat.

    F8:

    Toggles magic on/off for characters under the AUTO control.

    Space:

    Will return the party to your control from AUTO.

  Preparing Characters For Transfer to Hillsfar:
  ---------------------------------------------

  Your Pool characters can be used in Hillsfar-Amiga but they must be
prepared using the "PtoH" transfer utility on the POOLGAME disk.

  First you should initialize a disk and rename it "Hillsave". Next you
must remove the character(s) you wish to transfer from the party. The
removed characters must be on the "Poolsave" disk (Hard drive users must
copy their Pool_of_radiance/SAVE directory to the Poolsave disk). Once you
have the disks ready, boot your system and open a CLI/SHELL window. Insert
the POOLGAME disk in DF0: and change directories to DF0: by typing CD DF0:.
Prepare the character by typing: "PtoH Poolsave: Hillsave:"

  The utility will ask for the Poolsave disk and will scan for characters
(note that it will display all characters, even those in the party, so make
a note of the one's you wish to transfer before starting the utility). The
utility will list all characters and ask you to enter a character for
transfer. Type in the name of the character (extender not required) and
press <return>. The game will prepare the character and save it out to the
Hillsave disk. This can be repeated for as many characters as you wish to
transfer. When completed, the characters on the Hillsave disk can be
transferred into the Hillsfar-Amiga game using the Transfer Character
option from the Hillsfar Camp Menu.


                      That's all folks!     [-MB-]
              Pool of Radiance Data Card - typed by Master Blaster
