                       ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS  

                     P O O L   O F   R A D I A N C E
                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
------------------------
CHARACTERS AND THE PARTY
------------------------

 WHAT ARE CHARACTERS?

 You create characters to accomplish quests in the Forgotten Realms.
Characters are differentiated by their Race, Ability Scores, and Class.
Several characters are needed to accomplish the missions presented
here. These characters make up a Party. For maximum flexibility, you
should have a balanced party with characters of different classes and
races.

THE SIX PLAYER RACES IN Pool of Radiance
Dwarf. This is a cunning race of sturdy workers and craftsmen. They
have no magic of their own, but are resistant to magic. Dwarves can
advance up to 9th level as fighters, and any level as thieves. They
can be fighters and thieves at the same time. Dwarves can see in the
dark using infravision.

Elf. This is a long-lived race. As tall as humans but slimmer, they can
be fighters, magic-users, thieves, fighter/magic-users, fighter/
thieves, magic-user/thieves, and fighter/magic-user/thieves. They can
advance to 7th level as fighters and 11th level as magic-users, and
any level as thieves. Elves also have a better chance of finding hidden
objects and can see in the dark using infravision.

Gnome. Members of this race are shorter and slimmer than their cousins
the dwarves. They can go up to 6th level as fighters, and any level as
thieves. They can be fighter/thieves.

Half-Elf. These hybrids have many of the virtues of both humans and
elves. Like elves, they can be more than one class at once, though
they can advance only to 8th level as magic-users and 8th level as
fighters. Like humans, half-elves can be clerics, and unlike humans,
combine that class with other classes.

Halfling. These folk are about half the size of a human, hence their
name. They have little ability with magic, but are resistant to its
influences. They can be fighters, thieves, and fighter/thieves. They
are limited to becomming 6th level fighters, but have no limits as
thieves.

Humans. This is the most common player-race in the Forgotten Realms.
They have unlimited progression as fighters, magic-users, clerics, and
thieves.

Ability Scores
 The computer randomly generates the ability scores that every
adventurer has. There are six ability scores; all have some effect on
the play of the character. Ability scores are based on a range from
3(low) to 18(high). Each Character Class(see below) has a Prime
Requisite ability score. A Prime Requisite of 15 or more increases the
amount of Experience (see below) the character gets from adventures.

Strength(Str). This is the measure of how much a character can carry
and how much damage he can do in a fight. The Prime Requisite for
fighters is strength. Fighters with an 18 strength also have a percent
value from 1 to 100 (listed as 01-00), denoting the highest possible
natural character strength.

Intelligence(Int). This is the measure of how much a character can
ultimately memorize. The Prime Requisite for magic-users is
intelligence.

Wisdom(Wis). This is the measure of a character's ability to understand
the ways of the world and interact with it. The Prime Requisite for
clerics is wisdom.

Dexterity(Dex). This is the measure of the manual dexterity and agility
of the character. The Prime Requisite for thieves is dexterity.

Constitution(Con). This is the measure of the overall health of a
character. It influence both Hit Points (see below) and the character's
chance of surviving the effects of a raise-dead spell.

Charisma(Cha). This is the measure of how well the character. It is
sometimes a factor when the character has an encounter with Non-Player
Characters, usually called NPCs.

Each character also have two other important values: Hit Points and
Experience Points.

Hit Points(HP). This characteristic is derived from a character's
constitution (he gains a bonus to his Hit Points per level if his
constitution is over 14) his level, and his character is hit in combat,
he loses HP. A character with many HP can survive far longer in combat
than one with few HP. When a character reaches 0 HP he is Unconscious
and may be Dying or Dead, depending on how much damage he has taken.

Experience Points(XP). As a character has adventures, kills monsters,
and accumulates treasures, he gains Experience Points. When he has
enough XP he can increase in level, becomming more proficient in his
class. The computer keeps track of XP. Every character starts at first
level with 0 XP.

CHARACTER CLASSES
 An adventurer must be at least one of the following character classes.
A human adventurer can only be one class, non-humans can combine
classes. A character with combined classes has more playing options,
but he advances more slowly in his professions because he is doing more
than one thing at a time and his XP are divided up among his classes.

Cleric. The cleric is a holy crusader who fights for the causes of his
religion. Due to religious restrictions, he cannot use a cutting weapon
that draws blood, such as a sword or an arrow, but can use any form of
armour and use crushing weapons, such as a mace. He casts holy spells
that can heal and support his friends and also uses his natural holy
power to drive away undead. Some magic items are actually holy objects
that only a cleric can use. A cleric gains 1-8 HP with every advance in
level to 9th level, plus any constitution bonus. From 10th level on, he
adds 2 HP per level, without constitution bonus.

Fighter. THe fighter can use any form of armor or weapon including
magic ones, but most other magical items, and all magical spells, are
beyond him. A fighter gains 1-10 HP plus constitution bonus with each
advance in level through 9th level. With the 10th level, he gains 3 HP
per level without constitution bonus.

Magic-User. The magic-user is potentially the most powerful character
class, but he starts out weak. Initially, he has very few HP. In
addition, he cannot memorize many spells, and must carefully husband
his few spells until he gains more through advancement in level.

The beginning magic-user is given four first-level spells in his magic
book. He can add one additional spell in his magic book every time he
advances a level. He can also scibe spells into his magic book from
scrolls he finds inthe course of his adventures.
 In this game, magic-users cannot use any form of armor or any weapon
other than a dagger or staff. However, there are many magic items only
a magic-user can use. A magic-user gains 1-4 HP with every advance in
level through 11th level, plus constitution bonus. At 12th level and
beyond the gains only 1 HP per further level.

Thief. This is the thief of the sagas, who uses trickery and
misdirection-instead of brute force-to win his objective. This is the
only profession in which demi-humans may climb as far as any human.
Indeed, halflings and elves are especially adept in this craft. To be a
proficient thief, a character must have a high dexterity.

Thieves must stick to leather-based armor and have a restricted list of
weapons. A thief gains 1-6 HP with every advance in level, plus
constitution bonus, through 10th level. They gain 2 HP, without
constitution bonus, per level thereafter.

Multiple Classes. Non-humen races can sometimes be a combination of
classes. When a character is more than one class, his HP per level are
averaged among the classes involved. However, his experience is split
between the two classes evenwhen he cannot further advance in one of
them. He gains all the benefits of both classes in regard to weapons
and equipment.

Alignments
 Alignment is the philosophy a character lives by. While the actions of
a character are under your control, the character's alignment can
affect how NPCs in the game view him. The computer provides all the
possible all the possible Alignments for a character and you can choose
any of those you wish.

Lawful Good. Followers of this alignment strictly interpret law and
order, but they use these principles to bring all the benefits to the
society.

Lawful Neutral. Followers of this alignment view regulation as
all-important, taking a middle road between good and evil.

Lawful Evil. Followers of this alignment believe in the rulership of
the strong and the enslavement of the weak.

Neutral Good. The follower of this alignment believes there must be
some regulation in combination with freedoms if the  best is to be 
brought to the world.

True Neutral. A follower of this alignment believes that everything
must be kept in balance-law and chaos, and good and evil-to maintain
world harmony.

Neutral Evil. The follower of this alignment considers law and chaos to
be minor considerations as long as evil is brought to the world.

Chaotic Good. Followers of this alignment value randomness and freedom,
but also value life and individual welfare.

Chaotic Evil. The Chaotic Evil character disdains laws and order,
kindness and good deeds. He seeks positions of power, glory, and
prestige in a system ruled by his own whims.

Starting Equipment
 Each character is assumed to have starting equipment including
clothes, boots, backpack, money pouch, food, water, tinderbox, and
flint and steel. The character's on-screen list of items only includes
important items such as weapons, armor and magic items.

----------------
PLAYING THE GAME
----------------

 To play Pool of Radiance you need a party of characters. You can use
the party of characters provided or you can create your own.

Creating A Party Of Characters:
 A party is a group of characters you have generated and saved to the
save game disk for use in missions. You may have up to 6 Player
Characters in your party at a time. You can control up to 8 characters
in a game, but the remaining two slots are left open for NPCs your
characters may hire or meet along the way.

 When starting a game, the first screen you see is one with positions
for the vital information about the characters in the party and a menu
with all the ways putting together an adventuring party. This is the
Party Creation Menu.

Party Creation Menu:

Create New Character
Drop Character
Modify Character
Train Character
View Character
Add Character To Party
Remove Character From Party
Load Saved Game
Save Current Game
Begin Adventuring
Exit To DOS

The following describes the results of using each command.

Create New Character
 This is the opportunity to build an adventurer from scratch. This
leads you through a series of menues to help you define the character.

Pick Race Menu. This gives you the choice of the six races a
player-character can be in the Forgotten Realms.

Pick Gender. After you pick a character's race, you pick their gender.
Gender affects the possible strenght of a character and what sort of
portraits you will have to choose from to represent the character.

The computer then randomly generates the ability scores that every
adventurer has. Once you have seen the ability scores, you may have the
computer roll again and it will randomly generate a different
character. Otherwise, you may accept the rolls, and take the character
as generated.

If you accept the rolls, you still have the opportunity to alter the
character from the AD&D game by using the Modify Character command
described later.

Pick Character Class. This gives you the choice of the class or classes
your character is qualified for based on his race and ability scores.

Pick Alignment. From this menu the computer provides all the possible
Alignments for a character. You can choose the one you wish.

Name Character. Your choice of name for a character is entirely up to
you. You cannot use more than 15 letters in a name.
 The computer displays the complete character screen and gives you a
chance to save the character. If you save the character, it is written
to the save game disk to become one of the regular characters you play.
 At this time the computer genrates a portrait of your character. You
can choose both the head and body of your character's portrait. You
then choose the weapon, head, and colors for your character's combat
icon (the figure that represents the character in combat). Refer to the
Encamp section for instructions on how to alter combat icons.

Exit. From any of these menus this command brings you back to the Party
Creation Menu.

Drop Character
 This command is only used when you never want to play with a
particular character again. It eliminates the character's record from
the save disk and leaves a space in which you can create a new
character to fill.

Modify Character
 You may bring your favorite beginning AD&D character into the Pool of
Radiance. Create a character of the proper race and class and then
modify it to match your non-computer AD&D character. You can adjust the
created character's ability scores and HP. The character must start at
0 XP and with no items beyond those he can buy with his initial gold
allowance.

Train Character
 Use this command when a character has attained enough experience to
advance a level. this is available at the start of an adventure and
when the party travels to the Guild to get training.
 The computer asks who is to train, and checks the current XP of the
character. If he has sufficient points, the computer subtracts the cost
of the training from the character's current money and the character
advances a level. This takes no game time.
 A character can only advance as high as the highest level character
willing to train him. In the Training Hall of Phlan, the maximum limits
are 8th level fighter, 9th level thief, and 6th level cleric and magic-
user.

View Character
 this allows you to View a Character as descriped under that heading
below.

Add Character To Party
 This command allows you to pick party members from previously used
characters that are on a save game disk.

Remove Character From Party
 Since a party may only include 6 player characters, you can use this
command to write a character to the save game disk and then substitute
another with the Add Character To Party command. The Saved character
will replace the previous entry for that character on the save game
disk.

Load Saved Game
 This command brings up a precious adventuring party from the save game
disk.

Save Current Game
 This command puts the group you are currently construction onto the
save game disk for future reference. Then some versions will allow you
to exit the game.

Begin Adventuring
 When your party is ready to go, use this command to return to the
game. Follow the on-screen messages to get back into the game and you
are ready to go with your new party of adventurers.

Non-Player Characters (NPCs):
 In the course of a game, the party can run into many characters
controlled by the computer. They may talk to the party, attack the
party, and even offer to join the party. These are known as Non-Player
Characters, or NPCs.
 There are three kinds of NPCs: those you can hire at the Training Hall
to adventure with your party, filling in the two slots possible in a
party that you cannot fill with player characters; those who volunteer
to join the party for a specific mission or quest; and those who won't
join the party but will give either information or a fight.

What You Can Do With NPCs
 NPCs that want to join you are treated like your player characters,
with a few differences. Remember that you only have room for 2 NPCs if
you have a full party of 6 player characters. During an adventure you
may find NPCs that you want to add to your party. You should seldom
have more than 7 characters in your party so there is room to add the
NPC.
 The computer commands NPCs in battle. They have Morale. If things are
going badly for the party, they may run, even if you don't want them
to.
 You can give NPCs treasure, which may help their morale, but you
cannot trade their items to other characters. If they die, however, you
can use the Trade Items function to take their items.

Loyalty
 NPCs can also be traitors insinuated into your party, depending on the
way the adventure goes. They can spy on you and give information to
your enemies, and even turn on you in battle. NPCs can be a big help,
but don't trust them in every situation.

--------------------
VIEWING A CHARACTER
--------------------

The Character Screen:
 The character screen appears whenever you use the View command. The
character screen displays the character's name, race, and age. It also
displays his alignment, character class, and ability score. The current
wealth of the character is also shown. Initially, the computer
generates a random number between 30 and 180 in gold pieces, which the
character can use in buying his equipment. Later, as the character
accumulates wealth through his adventuring, there are several entries
on the screen showing the copper pieces (cp), silver pieces (sp),
electrum pieces (ep), gold pieces (gp), platinum pieces (pp), gems and
jewelry vary and are found when they are appraised.
 The screen also shows the character's current level, his earned XP,
and his current HP. If the HP are higlighted, the character has taken
damage that has not been healed. The number shown is his current HP,
not his normal Hp. Once the character has healed all the damage, the
number reverts to normal.
 The Armor Class is shown as AC; the lower the AC number, the better
the armor. Then it shows the character's Ready weapon and what armor he
is wearing. This is followed by the character's To Hit AC O (THACO).
 The lower the character's THACO, the better fighter he is. This is
followed by the damage the character does, which depends on his
strength and the wepon he has ready.
 The last entry is the Character Status. This is an indication of the
current health of the character. The Character Status can be:

Ok
 The character has positive HP and can move and fight normally.

Unconscious
 The character has exactly 0 HP. He cannot move or fight, but is in no
danger of dying.

Dying
 The character will die in a short period of time unless the character
is bandaged or healing magic is applied. If the character is bandaged
his status changes to Unconscious. Healing magic will make him OK
again. In the course of a combat, a character who is Dying has a chance
of becoming Dead unless he is bandaged (see Combat). A character who
survives a combat in Dying status is automatically assumed to have his
wounds bandaged after combat and becomes Unconscious.

Dead
 The character has died. He will be brought with the party (assume he
is set down during any combat) and can possibly be resurrected with a
raise dead spell from an NPC cleric. The character's actual chance of
being raised when the spell is used depends on his constitution.

Fled
 The character fled from the previous battie. After a battle is over,
he can rejoin the party as if nothing had happened, and regain his
previous status.

Gone
 The character has been destroyed by dragon flame, a disintegrate
spell, or some other form of total destruction. He cannot be raised
from the Dead.

 View Options:
 To inspect the active character choose the View Command. This brings
up the View Menu.

View Menu:
 View: ITEMS SPELLS TRADE DROP EXIT

Items 
 Using this command allows you to see what items the character is
carrying. The character's items and their combat ready status are
displayed. An item that is not Ready cannot be used. Not all commands
in the Item Menu are always available.

Item Menu:
 READY USE TRADE DROP HALVE JOIN SELL ID EXIT

 Ready. If you want to ready or unready an item, you can use the Ready
command to change the status of the weapon, armor, or other item. A
character has several restrictions on what he can use. Basically, he
cannot use more than two hand-held items at once. Thus, he cannot have
ready a sword, a shield, and a bow at the same time. Arrows are assumed
to be in a quiver and can be Readied at all times, though they cannot
be used unless a bow is Readied as well.

 Use. This command means the character is going to use an item. In
Combat, you will be asked to indicate the target (see Combat for
targeting) and proceed back to the Combat Menu.

 Trade. If you use this command, the screen switches to the Party
Screen and asks which character and the screen switches back to the
Items Screen.
 Indicate which item (you can trade multiple items in one transaction)
is to go to the other character and the item disappears from the
trading character's list and reappears on the item list of the
receiving character. Remember that an NPc does not give up an item once
he has it, unless he is dead.

 Drop. If this command is used on an item, the item is gone. It cannot
be retrieved. Do not use this if you want to give the item to someone
else, that's what the Trade command is for.

 Halve. Multiple items such as arrows are often combined onto one line,
such as 42 Arrows. Halve creates two lines, each with half the number
of items; such as two lines each with 21 Arrows. Only items like
arrows, that are shown as several items on one line, can be halved.

 Join. This is the opposite of Halve. If you have several lines of
arrows or a similar item on the Items screen, you can use this command
on one line and all similar lines are joined with it. The number of
items shown is the total of the numbers in all the former lines. No
more than 250 of an item can be joined on one line. NOTE: The Ready
status (Yes or No) of the item depends on the line that all the others
are joined with.

 Sell. This command is described under the Shop Menu.

 ID. This command is descriped under the Shop Menu.

Spells
 This is a listing of what spells a magic-user or cleric has memorized
and is ready to cast (see Magic Menu).

Trade
 This command is used when you want to transfer money from one
character to another. Indicate which character you are trading with,
and then indicate which coins and how much are to go to the other
character. The coins disappear from the trading character's list and
reappear on the money record of the receiving character.

Drop
 If this command is used on money, the money is gone. It cannot be
retreived.
 After you create your party, you appear in the civilized section of
Phlan. The party is ready to begin adventuring.

Missions:
 Phlan is a very dangerous place. The civilized nations are only now
gaining a foothold. You can either wander around town and run across
dangerous situations, or report to the City Council of Phlan. They will
assign the party missions and give rewards when the missions are
completed. Initial missions are local in nature, later ones are more
ambitious to match both your increased expertise and their opinion of
you. Phlan is split into two sections; the civilized section is
controlled by the settlers and the uncivilized section is controlled by
monsters. After you clear all the monsters from a block, settlers move
in and it becomes civilized.

Points Of View:
 As you move around the town and the wilder ness, there are three
different points of view: 3-D, Area and Wilderness.

3-D
 This appears with the Adventure Menu any time you are in town,
underground, or in any other built-up area. It shows a view of the
surrounding area as seen by the party. It only shows one direction at a
time, so you must rotate the party using the directional controls (see
Adventure Menu) to see in each direction. At the same time, the screen
shows what compass direction the party is facing and the coordinates of
their location in their current block.

Area
 This option is given in the Adventure Menu when the 3-D view is shown
on the screen. This view shows the position of the party and an
overhead view of the surrounding area. It can only be obtained in a 3-D
view, it does not appear in the Wilderness. There is no real detail,
just the position of all major obstructions such as walls, trees,
water, etc. A cursor shows the position of the party.

Wilderness
 This screen shows when the party is traveling in the Wilderness. It
displays an image of the party moving through a map-like wilderness.
It shows the area around the party for 2 moves in each direction. If
there is an encounter in the wilderness, an image of the encountered
monster appears next to the icon showing the location of the party.
You will be given all the usual options for the encounter (see
Encounters).

Blocks
 Most adventures take place in one or more blocks of 16 squares by 16
squares. The party moves from block to block by moving into a long
corridor with a low ceiling. Stairs and caves with low ceilings may
also move the party from one block to another.

Time And The Party
 From the moment the party begins its adventures in Phlan, the clock is
ticking. The longer it takes a party to complete a mission, the harder
it becomes.

Moving Around:
 The first thing a new party must do is equip itself from the Shops.
Then it has to get to the scene of its adventures. There are two ways
of doing this.

Town Travel
 You can walk the party to in-town missions, having encounters along
the way.

Wilderness Travel
 Some missions involve locations away from Phlan. The party travels in
the Wilderness Point of View until they reach the location of the
mission. The computer keeps track of the time traveled.

Civilization:
 The civilized section of Phlan contains a number of locations of
interest to the party. In the civilized section the party can find out
information, train, rest and heal, and buy and sell equipment.

The City Council
 This is where the characters meet the Council and receive missions and
news.

The Docks
 The party may catch a boat at the docks to take them to otherwise
inaccessible blocks and into the wilderness.

The Inns
 These give a safe haven in which to Rest (using the Encamp Menu). Each
stay at an Inn costs monay, but once you begin your stay you can rest
as long as you like.

The Taverns
 These are rowdy places full of gossip, stories, and information.

The Training Hall
 This is where the characters can receive training from NPCs of higher
level and add starting PCs. This displays the Party Creation Menu so
that you can use the Train Character command.

The Shops
 Here the characters can buy their initial equipment and later sell
some of their treasure and upgrade their equipment. When you enter a
shop, you are presented with a Shop Menu.

Shop Menu:
 BUY VIEW TAKE POOL SHARE APPRAISE EXIT

 Buy. If you use this command, the computer displays a list of items
available and their cost. If you try to buy something you do not have
the money for, the computer tells you so. If you try to buy something
that will overload you, the computer tells you that, too.

 View. This is the same screen as shown for this commands in other
menus with the addition of the Appraise command in the VIew Menu, and
the Sell and ID commands in the Items Menu.

 Sell. Use the cursor to highlight any item you want to sell. The Shop
will make an offer and you can either sell or not. If you decide to
sell, the screen asks you one more time to be sure, then the item is
gone.

 The shops in Phlan are very busy; no item sold to a merchant remains
for long. If you sell an item, it won't be there when you go back.

 ID. This command is used to get a magical evaluation of a magic item.
The shop charges you for the service of identifying the magic on an
item.

 Take. If you have left money through the Pool or Drop commands, you
can use this command to pick it up again. Indicate that you want to
take money and who will take it. The computer then displays each type
of coin available and how many of each coin there are. You indicate how
many of thecoins the character take. One character can take all of the
coins if he has the strength to do so, or you can allow each character
to take a share.

 If you try to pick up more than the character can carry, the screen
displays a message saying "The character is overloaded" and will not
let any more coins be put on the character. Remember, carrying lots of
coinage slows a character down in combat.

 Pool. This command makes all the party members drop all of their money
into one pool of money. All purchases made at the shop come out of this
central pool.
Anything left over can be picked up again using the Take Menu.

 Share. This command picks up all the money in the pool, divides it
into shares, and distributes it among the characters.

 Appraise. This is used in Shops to get an appraisal of any gems and
jewelry the character has. The computer asks what gems and jewelry are
to be appraised, and offers a price on the indicated gem or jewelry.
Once you have received a price, you may take it and the item is sold.
The money is immediately put in your money record. If you do not want
to sell immediately (gems and jewelry are a lot easier to carry than
coins), the gems and jewelry become items and go from the money record
on the Character Screen to the items list, and can be sold off of that
lists like any other item.

The Temples
 The temple will cast clerical healing spells for a price. When you
enter the temple, the Temple Menu is presented. Except for Heal, the
commands on the Temple Menu are the same as those on the Shop Menu.

Temple Menu:
 HEAL VIEW TAKE POOL SHARE APPRAISE EXIT

Heal. This command displays a list of the healing spells the clerics
will cast. Indicate the spell you want cast. The computer displays the
cost and asks you to confirm that you still want them to cast the
spell. The cost of a spell may vary depending on the recipient and
circumstances.


ADVENTURE MENU

 The Adventure Menu allows access to all of the main functions in the
Pool of Radiance. This menu shows either the current 3-D picture of the
area in front of the party and the status of the party (if in a town
adventure), or the area around the party (if in the wilderness). If any
party members are injured, their hit point numbers (showing how many
they have now) are highlighted for easy recognition. There are several
commands available to you from this menu.

Adventure Menu:
 MOVE VIEW CAST AREA ENCAMP SEARCH LOOK

Move:
 This is the command to move the party.

 In 3-D travel, the Party can move forward, move backwards, turn right,
or turn left. Normally, each movement forward or back puts the party
into another square and takes one minute of game time. Turning keeps
the party in the same square and takes no game time. If the party has
Search on, moving one square takes 10 minutes.
In the Wilderness, the party can move in any of eight directions.
Moving one square takes a half a day of game time. Search mode has no
effect in the wilderness.

View:
 This displays the Character Screen, as described in Viewing a
Character.

Cast:
 This command sends you to the Cast Menu so your active character can
throw a magic spell. See the section on Magic for a description of how
to cast spells and their effect.

Area:
 This shows an overhead view of the area around the party. If the party
is lost or in unfamiliar territory this command may not be available.

Encamp:
 This command sends you to the Encamp Menu. This is a very important
part of the game, and is described in detail in its own section.

Search:
 A party can move in Search Mode, which takes 10 minutes of game time
per move. This allows the party to carefully search the area they are
passing, but also gives wandering monsters a greater chance to find
them. You only need to hit the Search command once to start the party
moving at Search speed, then hit the command again later to reset them
to normal movement. You do not need to hit Search for every move.
 In Search you are assumed to be checking for secret doors, mapping,
moving as silently as possible, hiding in any available shadows, and
generally being as creful as possible.
 If you never go to Search mode, you will run into fewer wandering
monsters (because you are moving faster) but have much less chance of
finding concealed treasures or traps before they are sprung.

Look:
 This command is used to look at a square more closely, as if your
party moved into the square again. If the party is moving at normal
rate, then a Look command treats that particular square as if the
party moved into it in Search mode.


ENCAMP

 This command is used in several menus to take time off and try to
rebuild characters and the party. It is used to handle day-to-day
functions such as saving the game, resting to heal, or memorize spells
(desribed under Magic Menu), and changing game items such as game speed
or party order.

Encamp Menu:
 Encamp: SAVE VIEW MAGIC REST ALTER EXIT

Save:
 This command saves the characters and game as they are.

View:
 This displays the View Menu, as described under Viewing a Character.
In camp, this does not display the Sell Item or ID commands.

Magic:
 Magic is a very important part of Pool of Radiance and is desribed
later under its own heading. Magical Spells canonly be memorized while
the party is in camp.

Rest:
 One of the most important aspects of the Encamp Menu is the chance to
rest. Characters catch their normal sleep without having to go to camp.
However, to memorize spells or heal naturally, specific rest time is
necessary.
 For every 24 uninterrupted hours of resting in camp, every wounded
character regains one hit point above and beyond any recovery gained
from healing magics.
 The initial resting time is established by anyone who is memorizing
spells. The screen will show the days, hours, and minutes necessary for
the spell-using members of the party to memorize (or pray for) the
spells they want to memorize.
 Memorizing any spells at all takes a minimum of four hours. Third
level spells take a minimum of six hours. See the Magic Menu for
further description of memorizing spells.
 Rest can be interrupted by any random encounter. Only take long rests
in safe places, such as inns, hideouts, or secure buildings.

Rest Menu:
 REST INCREASE DECREASE EXIT

Rest
 Once you have determined the full time you want the party to rest,
this command starts them Resting.

Increase
 This command adds to the time that the party will stay in camp,
usually for resting to regain lost hit points. Every 24 uninterrupted
hours in camp restores 1 HP to every injured member of the group.

Decrease
 This command decreases the time to be spent in camp. This may mean
that characters do not memorize all the spells they want or that
characters may not recover all their hit points, but sometimes time
constraits are part of the adventure, and the party cannot spend all
the time it wants resting.

Alter:
 This command is used to change the basic makeup of both the party and
the characters who are part of it. You are given the following menu:

Alter Menu:
 Alter: ORDER DROP SPEED ICON PICS EXIT

Order
 This command allows you to reorganize your characters for combat. You
can place characters in the first or second rank. The first four
characters are in the first rank, where they will meet enemies hand-to-
hand , the rest are in the second rank, where they can use spells and
missile weapons.
 The computer asks who takes position number 1, etc. and reforms the
group, with position #1 on top, when all the choices are made. Position
of NPCs can be changed with this command.

Drop
 This command allows you to permanently drop a character or NPC from
the party. Once dropped, the character is gone from the party and his
current version will not be saved if you then use the Save command to
save the game.

Speed
 This command controls the speed of messages presented on the screen.
If you are having trouble reading messages before they disappear, use
the Slower command. If messages seem to take forever to get off the
screen, use the Faster command. Note that once you have used this
command, it affects all subsequent messages, and you may have to re-use
the command if later messages are too fast or too slow.

Speed Menu:
 Speed: SLOWER FASTER EXIT

Icon
 When a character is created, he is given a combat icon. When the party
is in Combat, each party members icon dsignates hit position and
general facing on the screen.
 The icon command is used to change the character's Icon. You can
customize this icon to represent the character's favorite weapons,
armor, and colors. You may want to do this when the character picks up
a new weapon.

Icon Menu:
 Icon: PARTS COLOR SIZE EXIT

Parts. You can alter the weapon (which controls the rest of the body
shape) or the head of the icon. You are shown both the Ready icon
character and the character's Action Icon (which shows the character
attacking).
When you are done choosing the weapon and head, you can reject the new
form or accept it. The screen shows you the new and old versions of the
Ready and Action Icons.

Parts Menu:
 Parts: WEAPON HEAD EXIT

Color. You use Color to alter the color of virtually every part of the
Icon, as shown on the screen. Some of the areas you can alter on the
Icons do not correspond to the terms given in the menu. For instance,
changing the shield color for a character with a bow or crossbow
actually changes the color of the arrows or quarrels. Play with the
Icons commands until you get a feel for how these variables work.

Color Menu:
WEAPON BODY CAP HAIR SHIELD ARM LEG EXIT

Size. Large size Icons are usually used for humans, elves, and half-
elves. Small size Icons are usually used for dwarves, gnomes, and
halflings.

Size Menu:
Size: LARGE/SMALL EXIT

Exit. When you are done, use this command. The computer will ask you to
confirm any changes to your icons. Make your choice and the computer
returns to the Alter Menu.

Pics
 This command governs when character band encounter pictures will be
displayed.

Pics Menu:
 Pics: CHARACTERS ON/OFF MONSTERS ON/OFF EXIT

Characters ON/OFF. This command governs the portraits displayed with
the character statistics when you use the View command. Characters On
shows the pictures when you view a character; Characters Off hides the
pictures. Having the characters hidden slightly speeds up the game
since the computer does not have to take the time to load or draw the
portrait each time.

Monsters ON/OFF. This command governs the pictures that appear during
encounters. Monsters On shows the animated picture when the monsters
get to the closest range in an encounter; Monsters Off hides the
animated pictures.


ENCOUNTERS

 When a party comes across NPCs of any knid, there is an encounter. The
computer provides a quick glimpse of who the party has encountered,
then asks whar you want to do.
 The computer determines whether both partless see each other, the NPCs
surprise the party, or the party surprises the NPCs.
 If the party surprised the NPCs, the party can attack immediately,
getting a free round to attack in which the NPcs cannot retaliate. This
opportunity must be taken at once or surprise is lost.
 If hostile NPCs surprise the party, the NPCs can attack immediately
and get a series of attacks in without retaliation by the party.
 If the NPCs do not surprise the party, the computer offers these
commands.

Encounter Menu:
 Encounter: COMBAT WAIT FLEE ADVANCE/PARLAY

Combat:
 The party attacks the NPCs. Who goes first is decided on the basis of
initiative, which is explained in the Combat section.

Wait:
 This command allows the NPCs to decide what to do. They may wait,
combat, flee, advance (if more than a square away) or parlay (if in the
same square).

Flee:
 If you see NPCs you think your party cannot fight successfully, use
this command to run away. If successful, you may flee wildly, risking
getting lost. If unsuccessful (because the NPCs can move faster than
you do) you go to combat.

Advance:
 If the NPCs are far away use this command to approach them. Once the
NPCs are adjacent to the party the Advance command will be replaced
with the Parlay command.

Parlay:
 Use this command to speak with NPCs that are adjacent to the party.
Choose a character to speak for the party. Pick the character who you
think will make the best impression on the NPcs. Then, choose one of
five possible attitudes for dealing with the NPCs.

Parlay Menu:
Parlay: HAUGHTY SLY MEEK NICE ABUSIVE

Haughty
 You try to demostrate your superiority to the inferior creatures you
are dealing with. Some encounters only respect an air of superiority
and are impressed enough to coorporate; this is also a good way to make
them resentful and attack.

Sly
 You try to get information out of the NPCs without them realizing you
are doing so. Some NPCs will realize you are trying to get something
out of them and will become hostile.

Meek
 You are mild and unassuming in hopes that the NPCs will think you are
not worth atacking. Of course, some NPCs attack meek opponents, because
they are easy pickings.

Nice
 You try to be friendly in hopes the NPCs are friendly to you. Some
NPCs do not choose to be friendly to anyone.

Abusive
 You try to browbeat information out of the NPCs. It is best not to do
this unless you have the power to back up your threat.

 The computer assumes you are as effective as possible in the attitude
you call for.


COMBAT

 In many adventures the party will have to fight to defeat the enemy.
In combat the computer determines which characters (both player
characters and NPCs) have initiative (i.e. which goes first) and
depicts that person and his nearby compatriots.
 If the character is a PC then the player will control his actions. If
the character is an NPC, or a PC under computer control using the Quick
command, the computer determines his actions.

Hitting the Target:
 The ability of an attacker to hit a target with a melee weapon (such
as a sword, spear, or fist) or a missile weapon (such as a bow or
crossbow) depends on the chance the attacker has of hitting the Armor
Class of the target. This is represented by a number called the THACO.
The lower the THACO the better the chance to hit.

 A target's defense is his Armor Class, or AC. This is influenced by
the armor worn, plus the dexterity of the target and any benefit
various magic spells may have. (Magic has another method of hitting a
target; see the Magic rules). The lower the Armor Class number, the
better the armor.

 The number needed for an attacker to hit a target is the attacker's
THACO minus the target's Armor Class. The attacker hits if a random
number from 1-20 is greater than or qual to this number. Thus, a person
with a THACO of 18 needs a 14 or more to hit Armor Class 4. Armor
classes can go into negative numbers, so the same character trying to
hit Armor Class -1 would need to get a 19 or better.

 In a combat, the first and second attackers strike at the defender's
front. The third attacker strikes at the defender's rear, unless all
the attackers are adadjacent. The fourth and any additional attackers
strike at the defender's rear. The defender's AC is substantially
reduced against rear attacks.

 A thief forms the only exception to the automatic facing rules. If the
thief attacks from exactly opposite the first attacker, he can
backstab. A backstab has a better chance of hitting the defender, and
does additional damage when it does hit.

Using Missile Weapons:
 A character may not use a missile weapon if he has an opponent next to
him. If he has no opponent next to him, he can fire a missile at anyone
in his line of sight. The Next and Prev commands will only aim at
targets in the attacker's line of sight.

Beginning Combat:
 Each character can be controlled manually or by the computer. At the
beginning of combat each character is controlled the same as he was in
the previous combat. Any character under manual control may be turned
over to the computer using the Quick command. All characters may also
be simultaneously switched to manual control or computer control.

Executing Combat:
 When a combat begins, the screen shows the area around the character
with the highest initiative. The entire party may not be on the screen
at the same time, and one can rarely see all of the monsters at one
time. The computer indicates the active character and lists his name,
current condition, armor class, and current ready weapon.

 Characters and NPCs move according to each character's dexterity and a
random number generated by the computer. This is called an Initiative
Number and changes with every combat round. Usually higher dexterity
characters move before lower dexterity characters.

 You may use the following commands to handle your side of the battle.
If a character cannot use a command (such as Turn for a non-cleric or
Cast for a fighter or thief) it does not appear.

The Combat Menu:
MOVE VIEW AIM USE CAST TURN QUICK DONE

Move
 This is used to move a character and to attack. You attack by moving
into an enemy's square. You can even attack party members, but the
computer gives you a chance to abort such an attack. If you disengage
an enemy, he gets a free attack at your back, as do others you move by.

 Some characters may have multiple attacks in one turn. Bows get two
attacks per turn. High level fighters egt two attacks every other turn.
All of a character's attacks are taken against his first target. If the
first target goes down with the first attack, you may aim the remaining
attack at another enemy.

 Fighters may make a special form of multiple attacks called a sweep. A
sweep may attack several weak targets with a single blow each.

 The number of spaces a character can move is reduced by the weight
carried. A character weighted down with coins or extra armor and
weapons cannot move as fast as he could without the items. Bulky armor
can also reduce movement.

 A character who is faster than any enemy can run away from the fight,
eventually running from the battlefield. A character who is as fast as
the fastest monster, only has a 50% chance of getting away (otherwise
he must remain until the end of the fight). A character who is slower
than any enemy cannot run off the edge of the fighting area. A
character who has run away is no longer part of the fight. He returns
after the fight is over.

View
 This is essentially the same command used any time you wish to see a
character. Using this, you can ready appropriate weapons to meet the
fight in progress. Some options, such as Trade, are not available in
the middle of combat. The Use command shows up under Items to allow
you to use an item, such as a wand, in combat.

Aim
 This command is used to aim an attack using the follwing options.

Aim Menu:
Aim: NEXT PREV MANUAL TARGET EXIT

Next. Use this command to look at all possible targets, starting with
the one closest then going to the next closest. The computer looks at
ALL possible targets, including other party members; don't shoot
without looking. (However, the computer confirms your order first,
before shooting at a teammate.)

Prev. (Previous). This is the opposite of the Next command. Use this
command to look at the possible targets starting with the one farthest
away and working back toward your character. Usually this is a good way
to find a good target without working your way through all of your PCs
first.

Manual. This command lets you aim anywhere on the map. It is especially
useful for finding opposing leaders and targeting spells with area
effects.

Target. Ifyour character has ready ranged weapon, or an item prepared
with the Use commend, this command shoots at the target you selected.

Use
 This command allows the character to use any non-weapon item. The
command brings up the same screen and menu as the items command under
the View Menu.

Cast
 This is only available to magic-users and clerics when they still have
spells available. Using this command brings up the Cast options of the
Magic Menu (see that description of the Magic Rules). If hit recently,
the character's concentration may be broken and you won't be given the
Cast option.

Turn
 Clerics can sometimes destroy undead monsters or turn them away from
the party. This has no effect on any other form of monster. See the
Appendices for a cleric's minimum level to affect various forms of
undead.

Quick
 This command turns over control of the character to the computer. It
is a good way to handle fights against hordes of less powerful
opponents. Once you have establish computer controls him in future
fights until you interrupt it.

 The computer uses ready melee or missile weapons and available spells,
switching between them to the most appropriate in the situation. The
computer plays a very aggresive game.

Done
 This command is used when a character has finished his turn.

Done Menu:
 GUARD DELAY QUIT BANDAGE SPEED EXIT

Guard. The character can adopt this tactic and simply wait to meet any
attacker. This means that he attacks the first foe that moves adjacent
to him before the foe attacks him.

Delay. THis command lets you delay this character's action by reducing
his initiative number by 1. If he is the only one to be at the next
lowest number, it is his actions until all others have had their action
for that round and then he must take an action or lose it.

Quit. You can signify you are finished with this character by using
this Command.

Bandage. This command only appears if a member of the party is dying.
The character for whom the command appears can use this command to
bandage the party member and keep him from dying.

Speed. This command is described under the Alter command of the Encamp
Menu.

If The Party Flees:
 As long as any party member survives to the very end of the combat,
the bodies of unconscious or dead party members are assumed to be with
the party. If the party flees from combat all unconscious and dead
party members are permanently lost.

If The Party Dies:
 If ALL the party members are stain you will have to go back to your
last Saved Game and try again from that point.

After Combat:
 When combat is over, the screen will show some congratulatory message,
then present a menu of commands. If a command does not apply to this
after-combat situation, it will not appear.

Treasure Menu:
 VIEW TAKE POOL SHARE DETECT EXIT

View
 See Inspect a Character. At this time you can use the Drop commands in
both the Items menu and in the Character Screen menu.

Take
 This command is used to pick up treasure.

Take Menu:
 Take: ITEMS MONEY EXIT

Items. Use this command to produce a list of items carried by the
monsters you have overcome. If more than one had a missile weapon, all
of their remaining missiles are lumped into one line (if there are more
than 100, 99 are on one line and the rest on another line). Frequently,
the weapons and armor used by monsters are substandard and not worth
picking up as treasure, so they are not listed.

 If one character tries to pick up too many items, the computer will
say he is overloaded and will not allow the acquisition.

 Money. The computer displays each type of coin available and how many
of each coin there are. You indicate how many of the coins the active
character takes. One character can take all of the coins if he has the
strength to do so, or you can allow each character to take a share.

 If you try to pick up more than the character can carry, the screen
displays a message saying,`The character is overloaded,' and will not
let any more coins be put on the character. Remember, canying lots of
colnage slows a character down in combat.

Pool
 This command makes all the party members drops all of their money info
one pool of money. It becomes part of the treasure and the party
members can use the Take Menu to reapportion their funds.

Share
 This command picks up all the money in the treasure, divides it into
shares, and distributes it among the characters.

Detect
 This command casts a detect magic from the current active character.

Exit
 This command lets you leave the scene of the battle. If there are
still items that can be picked up, the machine will remind you that
there is still treasure left. You can go back to the Treasure Menu or
leave the treasure and go to the Adventure Menu.


MAGIC

 Magic is integral to Pool Of Radiance. Both magic-users and clerics
can use magical spells.

How Magic Works:
 A spell can exist in one of three forms: In Memory, In Spell Book,
and On a Scroll.

In Memory
 A magic-user or cleric who has a spell in Memory is said to have
memorized the spell. He can cast the spell as shown in the Cast command
description.

In Spell Book
 Magic-users write their spells into a Spell Book. They can only write
those spells into the book of which they have the ability to cast. The
books are compendiums of spells among which they choose the ones they
want to memorize. Clerics do not keep a spell book, they simply pray
each day to get their spells.

On A Scroll
 A spell written on an enchanted scroll can be read by a cleric or
magic-user, depending on the kind of spells on the scroll. A magic-user
must cast the spell read magic to understand the spells a scroll
contains. Once he has done that, he can read the spell aloud at any
time to cast it. A cleric does not need a read magic spell to read a
clerical spell on a scroll, but only a cleric can read the spell. Once
any kind of spell has been cast or scribed from a scroll, the spell
disappears.
 A magic-user may scribe the scroll spell into his spell books for
future memorization. This erases the spell from the scroll.
 Spellcasters can get a list od their memorized spells from the Cast
option of the Magic Menu or from the Spells option of the View Menu.
They can get a list of their spells on scrolls from the Scribe option
of the Magic Menu. If all you want is a list of available spells, be
sure to exit before you actually cast or scribe the spell.

The Magic Menu:

CAST MEMORIZE SCRIBE DISPLAY REST EXIT

Cast. Use these commands to cast spells. In combat the spellcaster is
the current character. In camp the spellcaster is the current active
character.

Cast Menu:
 CAST NEXT PREV EXIT

 The Cast Menu appears in both the Magic Menu, and the Combat Menu. It
shows all the spells available to the active character. Find the page
with the spell you want to cast. Select the Cast command. Then select
the spell to cast it. If necessary, indicate the target of the spell.
If you do not find the spell you want, you can Exit. In combat, the
character can take another option. Otherwise the character returns to
the Magic Menu.
 Once cast, a spell is gone until it is memorized again.

Memorize. For a character to learn a spell, use this command, which
only appears in the Encamp Menu. The computer displays a page from the
active character's spell book (or a list of possible clerical spells)
and you are offered the following commands. Remember that if a magic-
user or cleric has the ability to learn more than one spell of a level,
he can learn the same spell more than once.

Memorize Menu:
 MEMORIZE NEXT PREV EXIT

 Find the page with the spell you want to memorize. Select the memorize
command. Then select the spell to memorize it. The 'pages' here are
pages of the magic spell book, rather than just the lsit of already
memorized spells.

 Picking a spell to memorize does not mean that the spell is memorized.
Learning a spell takes 15 minutes (game time) per level of spell, plus
a period of relaxation before starting to memorize one or more spells.
See the Rest command in the Magic Menu.

 Only one spell may be learned at a time, though the spellcaster need
only relax once before learning several spells. The learning time must
be uninterrupted. You have to go to the Rest command and spend the time
to memorize the spell. If you have only been in camp long enough to
memorize some spells, those are learned and the others lost. The spells
are memorized in the order you pick them.

 Example: A magic-user decides to memorize 2 uses of magic missile (a
first level spell) and 1 use of invisibility (a second level spell).
This is a total of 1 hour of time for memorization, plus 4 hours
relaxation time. If the party is attacked before the first 4 hours are
up, no spells are learned. If the party is attacked after 4 hours and
15 minutes in camp, the magic-user has learned 1 magic missile spell.
After 4 hours and 30 minutes he has learned both magic missile spells,
and after 5 hours he has learned the invisibility spell as well.
 Once you have picked all the spells for one character, you Exit the
menu. The computer displays the spells you have chosen and asks you to
confirm the choices. If you confirm the choice, you go back to the
Magic Menu and can select spells for the next character who needs to
memorize them. If you cancel the choice, all the choices are ignored
and you must re-select all the character's spells.

Scribe. Use this command to inscribe spells the character finds on a
scroll into his spell book.

Scribe Menu:
 SCRIBE NEXT PREV EXIT

 The computer displays all the spells on scrolls that the magic-user
has cast read magic on. Find the page with the spell you wish to
scribe. Select the Scribe command. Then select the spell to scribe it
from the scroll into your spellbook. If a spell is of too high a level
for the character to scribe, the computer tells you so. Scribing the
spell erases it from the scroll. Scribing takes the same time as
Memorizing a spell, and is unsuccessful if the total time is not taken.

Display. Use this command to find out what magic spells are currently
working on the party in camp. This serves as a reminder of obvious
spells working on the entire party, such as bless or light, and on
individual members of the party, such as protection from evil or
invisibility. This also reveals subtle curses (though not the nature of
the curse) on the party or individuals in the party.

Rest. To memorize spells, one must Rest. This takes you to the Rest
Menu described in the Encamp Menu description. Spells are not memorized
until the character has rested the necessary time.
 The Exit command in this use of the Rest Menu returns you to the Magic
Menu, not the Encamp Menu.

Spells Available
 A beginning magic-user is given four first-level spells when he leaves
his master to adventure on his own. These are shown in the spell book
for the magic-user. Each time the magic-user gains a level of
experience, he gains one spell, even though the rise in level may give
him the ability to learn more than one new spell at a time. To gain
further spells, he must find scrolls in treasures and copy spells he is
capable of casting into his spell book, using the Scribe command in the
Magic Menu.

Clerical Magic
 Clerical magic is very similar to magic-user magic, but a cleric needs
no spell books. All spells possible to his level are always available
to a cleric, he need only memorize them. Just what spells are available
depend solely on the level of the cleric.
 Therefore, when a cleric finds scrolls with clerical spells on them,
he can simply use them straight off the scroll, since they are not
something he needs to Scribe into a spell book.

Saving Throws
 Magic is a chancy business. Many spells do not necessarily affect
their targets. This is simulated with saving throws. In Pool Of
Radiance the saving throw is the chance that the spell has no effect or
a lesser effect on the character it is cast on. As a character gains
levels, his saving throws improve, and the chance that magic affects
him is decreased. The final results of any spell are shown on the
computer screen.
 Magic-users have better saving throws against cast magic or magic from
items, clerics have better saving throws against death and poison, and
dwarves and halflings have better saving throws versus any form of
magic.

The Spells:
 Some spells are quick and can be cast in combat, and some take an
extra long time to cast. Those that take extra time can only be cast
when using the Magic Menu from the Encamp Menu.

Time And Magic
 The duration of magic spells is important. A spell's duration is
either: instantaneous, as with most damage spells; measured in
rounds, as with most other combat spells; measured in turns, as with
many detection and protective spells; or permanent.
 When planning use of spells to use in movement (such as a find traps),
remember that one round equals one minute of game time and one turn
equals 10 minutes of game time.

The Spell List
 The spells available for characters in the Pool Of Radiance are:

First Level Clerical Spells

Bless. This spell can only be used in camp or combat, and it only
affects those characters not in melee. It gives a bonus of one to their
THACO for six rounds and raises the morale of friendly NPCs by 1. Use
it in camp only if you know you are going into combat immediately
afterward.

Curse. This reversal of bless affects enemies not in melee and modifies
their THACO and their morale by 1. Usable only in combat and lasts 6
rounds.

Cure Light Wounds. This can be used any time. The caster must be next
to the target. It heals 1-8 points of damage.

Cause Light Wounds. This combat-only spell causes 1-8 points of damage
to one adjacent target touched by the caster.

Detect Magic. This is similar to detect evil, but only lasts 1 turn. it
detects the presence of magic in a 1 square by 3 square area, but gives
no details on the type of magic.

Protection From Evil. This spell can be used in combat or in camp when
you expect to go into combat shortly. It adds 2 to the AC of the
character against evil attackers. Any saving throws caused by attacks
of such monsters are at +2. This spell lasts 3 rounds per level. The
caster must touch the target (which can be himself).

Protection From Good. This is essentially the same as protection from
evil, but it protects against the attacks of good creatures.

Resist Cold. This spell protects the recipient against cold, providing
absolute protection against cold up to 0 Fahrenheit and an additional
saving throw against cold-based attacks. The duration is 1 turn per
level of the caster, and the caster must touch the target.

Second Level Clerical Spells

Find Traps. This must be cast in camp. It makes any traps in the
direction the character is facing visible to the character. The spell
lasts for 3 turns.

Hold Person. This combat only spell holds immobile from 1-3 (cleric's
choice) creatures of roughly human shape and size. The duration is 4
rounds plus 1 round per level.

Resist Fire. This is identical to resist cold, but it works against
heat and heat attacks.

Silence 15' Radius. This is a combat spell. It silences any spell
casting or discussion in the radius. If cast on a person, the radius
follows him around for the duration of the spell unless he makes a
saving throw. If cast on an area, the spell affects everything in that
area for the duration of 2 rounds per level of the caster.

Slow Poison. This spell can be used in camp or combat. It revives a
poisoned person for 1 hour per level of the caster. The target of the
spell then dies unless a neutralize poison (a high-level spell only
used by NPCs) is cast on him.

Snake Charm. This spell can be cast in combat only. It influences as
many hit points of snakes as the cleric has hit points. The snakes
cease all activity for 5-8 rounds.

Spiritual Hammer. This is a combat spell which creates a temporary
magic item, automatically Readied. It can strike at range and does
normal hammer damage. It strikes monsters that only magical weapons
can affect. This lasts for 1 round per level of caster.

Third Level Clerical Spells

Animate Dead. This spells can be used in combat or camp. It turns a
dead human person into a zombie to help the spellcaster. In combat,
the zombie fights for the spellcaster, though controlled by the
computer. This spell is permanent until the zombie is destroyed. If
created to work with the party, a zombie becomes an NPC and there must
be room for him in the party (remember, the limet is 8 characters) or
he cannot be taken along.

Cure Blindness. This touch-only spell is used in combat or camp to cure
the blinding effects of the cause blindness spell.

Cause Blindness. This touch-only spell can only be used in combat. The
victim gets a saving throw. The duration is permanent until negated by
cure blindness or dispel magic.

Cure Disease. This spell can be used in camp only. It cures the
diseases caused by mummies and the disease spell.

Cause Disease. This is a combat spell with a touch range. There is a
saving throw. If a character is afflicted with a disease, over time he
loses HP and Strength Points until he is down to 10 percent of his
normal values. This disease is cured by a cure disease or dispel magic
spell.

Dispel Magic. This spell can be used either in combat or camp. In
combat, it affects every magic spell and item in an area. In camp it
affects every person anditem you select. There is a percentage chance
of success with this spell depending on the level of the caster and
level of the originator of the spell to be dispelled. If successful,
the target magic is permanently eradicated.

Prayer. This is a combat spell that lowers all THACOs and saving throws
for friendly combatants by 1 and raises them by 1 for all unfriendly
combatants. It has a 60' radius and lasts 1 round for each level of the
character.

Remove Curse. This can be used in camp or combat and allows the target
to be rid of a curse (as from a curse or bestow curse spell) or put
down a cursed object. The range is touch.

Bestow Curse. This spell has a duration of 1 turn per level and is used
in combat. It has variable effects determined by the computer

First Level Magic-User Spells

Burning Hands. This touch-range combat spell causes fire damage of 1
point per level of the caster. There is no saving throw.

Charm Person. This spell makes a humanoid creature the caster's friend
and ally. Any action of the caster will be seen in the most favorable
light possible. The target gets a saving throw when the spell is thrown
and again days or weeks later, depending on its intelligence. You can
never be sure the effect is permanent. For the moment, the charmed
creature can become an NPC (if there is room in the party roster) under
the command of the caster.

Detect Magic. This spell is the same as the clerical spell; its
duration is 2 rounds per level of caster.

Enlarge. This spell can be used in camp or combat and lasts for 1 turn
per level of the caster. The living target increases in size by 20%
per level of the caster. It makes the humanoid target into an ogre or
giant in size and strength for combat purposes. A target can only be
under the effect of 1 enlarge spell at a time. Unwilling targets get
a saving throw against this effect.

Reduce. This is the opposite of enlarge, and can be used to negate
enlarge. Unwilling targets get a saving throw against its effect. If
the saving throw is unsuccessful, the target is reduced in size and
loses effective strength and movement.

Friends. This combat only spell affects everyone in a sphere that
increases with the level of the magic-user. Everyone within that sphere
failing a saving throw thinks the caster has 2-8 more points of
Charisma. Those who make their saving throw think he has 1-4 less
points of Charisma. The effects last 1 round per level of caster.

Magic Missile. This is a combat spell that does 2-5 points of damage
to the target, no saving throw. For every 2 levels, the magic-user gets
1 missile, so magic-users of the 3rd and 4th levels get 2 missiles, and
those of the 5th levels get 2 missiles, and those of the 5th and 6th
levels get 3 missiles. All must be fired at once.

Protection From Evil. Like the clerical spell of the same name, but
it lasts for 2 rounds per level of caster.

Protection From Good. Like the clerical spell of the same name, but it
lasts for 2 rounds per level of caster.

Read Magic. This is only used in camp and allows the user to read any
magical (not clerical) writing. It lasts for 2 rounds per level of
caster. Once you use this spell to read a scroll you can cast the
spells off of the scroll.

Shield. This spell is a combat spell that improves the targets armor
class and saving throw, and negates the effect of the magic missile.
The spell lasts for 5 rounds per level of caster.

Shocking Grasp. This combat spell does 1-8, +1 point per level of
caster, electrical damage to a target the caster touches.

Sleep. This spell puts up to 16 targets to sleep for 5 rounds per level
of caster. The least powerful targets are affected first, and the
bigger the monster, the fewer of them are affected. Monsters above a
certain power are not affected at all. No saving throw.

Second Level Magic-User Spells

Detect Invisibility. This can be used in camp or combat and lasts for
5 rounds per level of caster. This has a range of 20 feet per level of
caster.

Invisibility. This makes the target (touch range) invisible to normal
and infravision until he ands the effect or attacks someone.

Knock. This spell is used to open locked doors or chests. It can be
used in camp or while moving.

Mirror Image. This combat spell creates 1-4 illusory duplicates of the
magic-user. If a duplicate is attacked, it disappears. The spell lasts
2 rounds per level of caster.

Ray Of Enfeeblement. This combat spell has a saving throw. If the
target does not make the saving throw, he is weakened (he does less
damage for 1 round per level of caster).

Stinking Cloud. This affects a 2 square by 2 square area. Anyone in the
cloud gets a saving throw. If unsuccessful, he is helpless for 2-5
turns. He can move out of the cloud, but he is still helpless. If he
makes the saving throw, he is helpless only as long as he is in the
cloud and for 1 round afterwards. The cloud lasts 1 round per level of
caster.

Strength. This spell is only used in camp. It raises the strength of
the target by a variable amount depending on the class of the target.
The duration is 6 turns per level of caster.

Third Level Nagic-User Spells

Blink. After casting this spell, the caster can seldom be targeted
because he is blinking in and out of the area. The spell lasts for
1 round per level of caster.

Dispel Magic. This is just like the clerical spell of the same name.

Fireball. This area effect spell does 1-6 points of fire damage per
level of caster to each target in the area. A successful saving throw
cuts the damage in half. Outdoors, a fireball has a 2 square radius.
Indoors, in a constrained area, it has a 4 square radius.

Haste. This combat spell affects 1 person per level of caster. Everyone
affected moves twice as far and attacks twice with melee and missile
weapons, but they do not throw any additional spells per round. It
lasts for 3 rounds plus 1 round per level of caster.

Hold Person. This is like invisibility but affects everyone within
10 feet of the caster when it is cast. Everyone affected stays
invisible, and comes out of it normally, but if the caster ends his
invisibility it ends for everyone.

Lightning Bolt. This affects everyone in its path. It does 1-6 damage
points per level of caster, a successful saving throw cuts this damage
in half. A lightning bolt is 4 or 8 squares long in a line away from
the caster. The bolt will rebound off walls to reach its full length.

Protection From Evil, 10' Radius. This is just like protection from
evil, but it affects everyone within 1 square of the target as long as
they stay there.

Protection From Good, 10' Radius. This keeps the target (touch range)
from being harmed by non-magical missiles for 1 turn per level of
caster.

Slow. This combat spell affacts 1 person per level of caster. Unwilling
targets get a saving throw. Targets move at 1/2 their normal distance
each round, and theirnumber of attacks per round is halved. If they
only have 1 attack per every other round. This can be used to negate
haste. Its duration is 3 rounds plus 1 round per level of caster.


             -----  AGAIN ANOTHER 100% POWER-TYPING  ----

                ---  DONE BY THE TWINS OF TRILOGY  ---

                                 and

                 Spread by Midnight Maniac and Mayday


