                       Shadow Of The Beast II - Trainer

This is how to activate the trainer on Shadow Of The Beast II. At the start of
the game go to the right where the guys are gonna throw spears at you. Hit A
and type TEN PINTS. This will give you unlimited health.

                                  GAME HINTS

OK, this should get you started. After activating the trainer go left to
where the bad guy has a guy trapped in a force field. Quickly hit him a couple
of times to kill him and free the lower guy. He will then tell you the
position of a switch (upper or lower) for later in the game. Now go left and
down the rope to the swamp. Go left until you get to the building. Enter the
building, go left and pick up the jug. Now go back to where you started the
game. From here go right and through the spear throwing dudes. Go up and kill
the guy who is throwing the green puddle things at you. Pick up the axe he
drops. Now go left and fall from the ledge. Go right to the rock that is by
itself and you can see a little grass spot on the ground. Jump on this like
4-5 times and it will fall through. Go down the steps and you are in the
Crystal Cavern. Go left, at the bridge a guy will start running left. Chase
him and he will take you to a bridge that is being mechanically shortened.
Jump and shoot the dude thats cranking the bridge(3 or so shots with the AXE).
Now break the door at the other side of the bridge with your ball & chain. Go
up the first chandelier. Go left and hit the correct switch. Now go down and
kill the guards and go right. Get the key and go left, you will get caught
and they throw you in jail. Use the "O" command and give the jug to the guard.
After he passes out break down the door with ball & chain. Kill the guard.
Go up the rope (faster than the prisoner) and kill the guard at the upper left
and then go back down the rope to get the key he dropped. Now go up the rope
and go left at the first chance you get. Use 1 of the keys and free the
prisoner. Go to the top of the rope and go left and get the ring. Now if you
go right the prisoners get killed. This is as far as I have gotten. The ring
you can give to the old man who lost it, but he still wants a parchment before
he will teach you a spell. The other key may be for the locked door in that
first building (where you got the jug), I dont know. Anyway the game sucks
cause you have to keep rebooting if you fuck up anywhere (ie fall in the sewer
or go as far right as the game allows, or if you fall in the river and miss the
up rope). But anyway this should help you out.

                           Which crack works?????

Well as far as I can tell the only crack that works is the 2 disk crack from
Angels. They did cut the intro way short, but this is a blessing when u have
to keep rebooting every couple of minutes, when u get stuck. I have play
tested some of the other cracks and fixes (mostly all from the Angels) and
all seem to have one problem or another. But it looks like they got it right
with this last one. If you want a for sure good copy, either buy it or get
an original and copy it with Syncro Express (Hardware copier).

This file was typed in by  MERKWooD of PARADOX!! Thanks to Ed and Steve for
the hints to the game. Hope they help you out in this very frustrating game.