     MORE ABOUT COLONIAL CONQUEST II
     
     
     The following text has been written for all those people who
     specially enjoyed the game  and  want  to  know  more  about
     Colonial Conquest. Most of it is  totally  useless  for  the
     understanding of the  game,  but  like  many  other  useless
     things in the world, it might be fun to read it anyway.
     
     
     THE BEGINNING
     
     
     I have started to write Colonial  Conquest  in  summer  1993
     during the preparation of my final exams at the  university.
     As it was impossible to sit at home the whole day and  learn
     physics (that's what I've studied) I thought it might be fun
     to have something  creative  and  constructive  beside  this
     tedious learning activity. As I have always enjoyed  playing
     strategy games very much and as I believed that  these  were
     the easiest games to write -  specially  in  a  not-too-fast
     programing language like AMOS - I  started  right  away  and
     finished a first playable version within  a  few  weeks.  It
     then took at least two months to debug it and make  it  more
     comfortable to use. 80% of the development time  was  really
     invested in details which was frustrating at times.
     As soon as Colonial Conquest was out on  Aminet,  first  bug
     reports smashed my illusions to have  programed  a  bug-free
     game. Worse, the bugs were so bad that I felt  that  it  was
     necessary to release a new version very soon. At the end  of
     1993, Colonial Conquest v1.05 was transferred to Aminet.
     Since then, more bug reports have come, but  also  thousands
     of suggestions that - if followed - would have  led  to  the
     most incredible  ultimate  20MB  strategy  game  for  68040+
     processors  only  with  animated  24bit  graphics,   sampled
     speech,  neural  network  based  artificial   intelligence,
     options for 3D-glasses and cyberspace helmets.
     Well, honestly, I couldn't do it.
     Some of the  suggestions  however  were  realizable  without
     loosing my job, and I couldn't resist the temptation to make
     Colonial Conquest better and better until it became  such  a
     monster of a program that I wasn't really  sure  if  it  was
     much better.
     
     
     BUGS
     
     
     Bugs? What's that?
     Ok, ok, I remember... ah, well, they never show up when  I'm
     playing. They know that it would be suicidal to do so. Maybe
     they are not even that intelligent. It could  be  that  it's
     only an instinct and those who didn't have it  were  treated
     without mercy by natural selection.
     No, honestly, bugs are still there probably, but  this  time
     they are not so bad anymore as an internal routine  will  be
     activated as soon as an AMOS error occurs.  It  will  inform
     you that an error has happened (what a shame!) and  it  will
     give you the error number that you  should  write  down  and
     communicate  me  if  possible.  You  will  then   have   the
     possibility to save the game before  the  program  tries  to
     continue the game. I would say that  the  program  will  not
     crash after trying this  most  of  the  times,  but  strange
     results may occur. Of all bugs  I  have  already  removed  I
     would pretend that none would have led to a crash.
     
     
     MUSIC
     
     
     I used to sing nicely when I was a kid. One day  however,  I
     realized that people were fleeing  from  me  as  soon  as  I
     started  to  sing.  The  same  thing  happened  when  I  was
     whistling or making any other noise that was intended to  be
     music. I concluded that I was not a musician and stopped all
     my ambitions with this respect.
     I'm still not a musician. If I had tried to make  music  for
     Colonial Conquest II, you would have turned down the  volume
     of your  monitor  after  three  seconds  if  not  a  natural
     survival reflex had made your fist  smash  the  speakers  of
     your monitor after one second.
     Fortunately, one day a nice and  very  talented  musician  -
     Carl Wooltorton - knocked at my door (well, he wrote  me  an
     e-mail actually) and asked if I  was  interested  in  having
     something made for CCII.
     
     I wanted something uncommon, dark  and  strange  and  a  few
     weeks later he sent me an incredible masterpiece that fitted
     EXACTLY to the game and to what it should express.
     As I thought that it was a little bit too long  for  a  game
     music, we had long discussions about artistic integrity  and
     music in general. We finally agreed  on  a  compromise:  The
     music included in the game is a cut  down  (i.e.  "remixed")
     version of the original soundtrack. This fact is  explicitly
     stated in one of the title screens of CCII.
     Carl will release the  original  soundtrack  on  Aminet  (as
     "co.powerplay" in "mod/pro") on the same time and  all  real
     fans of CCII should try to get it and listen to it.  It  has
     the big advantage of being a real  Protracker  module  which
     makes possible some effects that have been discarded when  I
     have converted it to the AMOS music format.
     If you  own  AMOS,  you  will  even  be  able  to  make  the
     conversion yourself with the original soundtrack and save it
     as "Gamemusic" in your CC directory. As the game just  loads
     the music file "Gamemusic" (if it exists), it doesn't matter
     WHAT music you put in.
     
     
     THE PLANET EDITOR
     
     
     I have programmed a little  planet  editor  that  allows  to
     design new planet surfaces for the game. It is not  included
     in the Colonial Conquest  II  disk  and  it  is  not  freely
     distributable. It's a present I have ready  for  all  people
     who write me their comments and thoughts about CCII  through
     e-mail. The uuencoded file will be  sent  to  those  persons
     directly through e-mail as well as the original "Final  Copy
     II"-version of the manual.
     Through normal mail, everything gets more complicated as the
     sending of a disk is coupled with work and money. I  do  not
     want to spend my evenings copying disks for no money and  on
     the other hand I do not want to make money with  a  kind  of
     shareware service. Therefore, I will only send such  a  disk
     to people who send me a donation of 10DM or more. Note  that
     the money is still a GIFT to me FOR THE GAME and the disk is
     a present in return. It may not be a big difference for you,
     but it is one for me.
     Depending on my work-load, it may take  quite  a  few  weeks
     before you get an answer by normal mail. Be patient, please.
     
     
     
     
     
     THE FUTURE
     
     
     Will there be a Colonial Conquest III?
     
     No, I don't think so. I know that there are still  thousands
     of possibilities to make the game better, but I believe that
     even if I make it a lot better, people who have  played  CCI
     or CCII will  get  bored  very  quickly  as  all  the  basic
     principles would stay the same.
     Provided I find enough spare time during my Ph.D. thesis,  I
     will work on a new project or continue an old one  that  has
     never been finished. In any case it will be something in the
     field of strategy or RPG games.
     
     
     
     
     Christian Mumenthaler, 23. August 1994
