StarTrek:The Next Generation Tutorial!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This file is intended to be used in conjunction with the 
"tutorial.dat" mission. Where possible, try to print this 
file (or use LAM + A to swap to WB).


Look around
~~~~~~~~~~~

This is if you are interested in what is around you. If
you just want to play, skip to Mission 1.

The first screen you will see after loading Tutorial.dat
is the Flight screen of CONN. Anything to do with course
plotting or tactical displays is covered here.

The top left of the screen shows you any course that is plotted, 
the distance (if applicable) and if there are any ships nearby.

The bottom left shows you your current location (name of system),
your plotted XYZ co-ordinates, and your actual XYZ co-ordinates.

The main part of the screen is used in conjunction with the menu,
and can call up different functions.


By pressing {Right Arrow}, you will move across to the Navigation
section of CONN. Here you can see your position in the sector
relative to other systems, as well as using the RCS to change
attitude/yaw, or launch emergency beacons.

Press {Right Arrow} again. This takes you to the propulsion
section of CONN. From here, you can set/engage warp or impulse
engines, or check some engineering figures.


By pressing {Up Arrow} you will move to Engineering. This is
effectively another console, but will be extremely useful throughout
the game. The display on the left shows you your energy budget, and
how it is used. The important figures to notice here are the Current
Use percentage, and the generator percentages. If the current use 
percentage ever gets more than 115%, then you run the risk of 
seriously damaging the generators.

Press {Down Arrow} to return to the Flight CONN.

 
Mission 1
~~~~~~~~~

You are asked to travel to Stillwell. To do this, press
"\" to goto to Plot Course. You have a new choice now.
Select "\" again for Plot by Name. Enter the name "Stillwell" -
note that this is NOT case sensitive. It should come up with 
"Course plotted to Stillwell" and show the distance in light
years.

Press {Right Arrow} once to move to Nav. Press "a" to select
Verify Poition. Press "q" for Sector Scan. This shows you two
maps side by side of the local sector. The left map (XY) shows
you a plan view, where the right map (ZY) shows you a boresight,
or foward looking view. The colours of systems show their position
relative to the local XYZ centre: The darker the blue, the further 
away, the lighter the green, the further away in the opposite direction.

To get a feel for this, hold an object in front of you. Imagine you
are looking down on the object. This is the XY map. The darker the 
blue, the object would be nearer the floor - the brighter the green,
the object would be nearer to your nose. 

The grey circles are on the XYZ Zero line.

The red circle shows your position relative to the other systems.
There are no shadings for this.

A yellow circle shows your target position.

Press any key to remove the map.

Press {Right Arrow} (From henceforth {R}) to move to Propulsion.
Here you can set the warp/impulse engines. Press "1" to set
the warp factor. Try warp factor 6. Now press "z" to engage warp. 
The RCS (Reaction Control System) will fire to turn you to the 
correct direction. Depending on the level of movement, this might 
take a while. Then, warp factor will be engaged.

Press {L} twice to return to Flight. By looking at the top left,
you can see that the distance is closing. The bottom left
shows that you are in motion, and where to. 

You can select a better idea of your course details by pressing
"]" for Course Details. This shows you information about your journey.

Once you reach Stillwell, the warp engine will automatically disengage,
and you will be stationary in the Stillwell system.


Mission 2
~~~~~~~~~

This mission shows you how to repair things.

Go to Engineering {Up Arrow}. You should see an Error Flag in Tactical.
What this means is that a level 5 diagnostic has detected an error 
somewhere in the Tactical System. (Diagnostics run from level 5 - quick 
glance - to level 1 - turn it all off, and physically send someone to 
have a look.)

In order to fix it, you need to find out what is wrong. So, press "a" for
Diagnostics. You will have a choice displayed on screen. Press "\" to
select a level 4 diagnostic. These only take about 5 seconds to perform.

Follow any on screen instructions.

Once the diagnostic is complete, press "a" again to enter diagnostics.
It should show you that it knows that an error is in the Shields of the
Tactical system, and that the specific compnent is the generator.

As it knows what is wrong, you can fix it. If it didn't know the specific 
component, you would have had to perform a more lengthy diagnostic.

Press "z" to enter Damage Control. It shows you the specific component
that needs repairing, and asks if you want to repair it now. Press "y".

You will be told when the repair is complete.


Mission 3
~~~~~~~~~

Now you have to travel to another Sector. Sectors define large areas of
the galaxy. They frequently have systems with similar names, but the sector
number defines which system you are talking about. 

Go to Flight. Select Plot Course ("\"). Select Plot by Sector ("]"). 
Type in 13.

Go to Warp. Set warp factor ("1") to 9. We've got a fair bit of travelling
to do, so we may as well get there sooner rather than later. Engage ("z").

When you reach Sector 13, go to Flight. Select Plot Course. Select Plot 
by XYZ ("#"). Enter the co-ordinates you were given (15/25/35).

Go to Warp. Engage ("z").

Although the mission is officially over once you reach the co-ords, I
want to show you the tactical display. 

On Flight, select Overlay Tactical ("#"). Here you can see your shield 
strangth, you phaser and torpedo strength, and your hull integrity.
If there is another ship present (like now), it will display a red circle 
(you) and another shape, this time a green triangle. The green indicates that
it's a friendly, whereas the triagngle shows how strong it is. To get a 
better idea of it's capabilities, select Lock Target ("#").

This will now show you it's class, it's hull/shield strength in MTonnes/MWatts
respectively. It will also show you it's alliegence. This can be very important,
as some Independant ships can turn nasty instantly.

This particular ship is actually a drone. It's here for target practise.

Select Shields. Activate your own shields.

Select Weapons. Your phasers are currently on cold standby. Press "\"
to put them on hot standby (25%). You can do the same immediately for
the torpedoes. 

Once you are reading 25% on phasers or torpedoes, go to Weapons again.
Select Arm Phasers. Do the same for torpedoes.

You could have fired them already as you are locked and the weapons
are online, but you might as well use them at their optimum capacity....

Once they are at 100%, select Weapons, then Fire. The onboard computer
will actually determine which weapon to fire, depending on it's exhaustive
listing of Spacecraft Combat Maneuvers (SCM). The effect can be seen by
the ships decline in Shield/Hull levels.

This is quite nice - fighting a "baddie" that doesn't fight back! But 
what happens if they do return fire? As your shields get reduced,
you can divert more power to the shields through Engineering.

Go to Engineering {U}. Select Allocations ("1"). Select Select System
("q"). The menu at the bottom will come up. Select Tactical "\".

You will be shown the various sub-systems of Tactical, their current
energy allocation, and their maximum required allocation. Select
Sub-System 1 (shields) by pressing "\". Enter a lower amount than the
maximum (say 1000).

What this has done is to change the amount of energy that the shields 
can draw from the generators. To show this, return to Flight (which 
should still be overlaying Tactical).

The shields should now read below 100%. When this value reaches zero,
hull damage can occur, as well as damage to shipwide systems.

Select Shields and deactivate them. Select weapons and disarm them.
Return to CONN "/".

Return to Engineering, and follow the previous steps to return
the shield allocation to 1920.


Mission 4
~~~~~~~~~

Plot a course for Nunja. Engage warp.

Once you reach Nunja, and the next mission message comes in, Red Alert will
probably sound. To cancel it, press Escape.

What has happened is that this mission simulates a generator breakdown,
in this case, the warp generator. As the Impulse generator was already offline,
there were no generators to produce energy for things like life support.
This danger is brought to your attention by the red alert.

The reason why you are still alive is twofold. One: There are emergency
backup generators, which will ONLY run Life Support. They therefore 
reduce the energy allocation to non-essential functions such as 
transporter, warp engines, etc. to zero. 

Secondly, red alert automatically turns on both warp and impulse
generators, as full energy requirements are often used. In this case,
the warp generator is damaged, and so is still offline. The Impulse
generator, however, is running at 100%. You can check this by going
to Engineering.

The non-essential functions are still offline, however. To change this,
return to Flight. Select Select Mode "/". You will be shown that you
are operating in Emergency Backup Mode. Select Cruise Mode "\".
This will attempt to put the warp generator back online, as well as
reallocate the various systems to their default settings. 

Now that everything is back to normal, lets have a look at the
generator. Without the warp generator, you cannot travel between
the stars - impulse engines are way too slow to help.

Try a level 3 diagnostic, if you like. It should take about 30 seconds,
as it is more intense than a level 4.

However, you will find that it doesn't help.

So, try a level 2. To do this, the whole system must be offline. In
other words, there must be no energy allocations made to the 
whole system, in this case, the propulsion system.

Go to Allocations, and select Select System. Select More "/", then 
Propulsion "\". Set all sub-systems to zero.

Perform a level 2 diagnostic and see what happens. It should take about 
a minute (for cheaters, press "c"). 

You will find that this still doesn't help entirely. So that leaves 
a level 1 diagnostic - but you need External Support.

External Support is where something else can give you power so that
entire systems can be disconnected from the ship, people can travel
inside small gangways, and typically whole teams are devoted to
the search of the problem. But there isn't a friendly ship here, 
nor is there a Starbase.

So, the only alternative is to launch a distress beacon, or probe.
This is like sending a flare in the forest - most times it will
help, but sometimes it can be dangerous. 

Essentially, you have a 70% chance that a friendly vessel will turn
up to give you a hand. You will know that this is the case if you
get told that you are being hailed.

However: an independant might come along, EITHER to help or to
plunder. The only way to be sure is to hail him (see later). If
he realises you are stuck, he might help. Or not.

Worse still, a weak enemy might think that you are an easy target,
and will try to dispatch you immediately.

If you suddenly get a yellow alert, that means that an independant
vessel has approached. A red alert means an enemy.

Yellow alert will put offensive weapons to hot standby (25%). However,
shields will stay down. 

Red alert brings weapons to Full Power, as well as immediately 
activating shields. 

To launch the probe, go to Nav. Select Emergency Beacon ("z"). 
Select Release "1". The wait can be anywhere up to 2 real
minutes, depending on how far they are.

If they attack, go to Tactical. Lock on. Fire weapons. Independants
will run away if their shields are down - they are opportunistic,
not real enemys. A true enemy will continue fighting to the death.

Normally you can still runaway from a battle, but as your warp
engines are effectively down, you can't!

So...assuming that you aren't fighting (i.e. Yellow alert or Being
Hailed) then go to Flight and select Select Mode. You can hail them
by selecting External Support. Friendly's will help straight away, 
Independants might help, or attack. Be warned in either case.

Once you have External Support, you can perform that level 1 
diagnostic. Once completed, you can repair it. Note that the 
energy required to repair it is typically far more than a single
ship can every produce. 

(External Support can also be found at Starbases)

Once the repair is complete, you've finished the mission.


Mission 5
~~~~~~~~~

This mission is quite gentle. You will find out the rest of the
ships commands.

Go to Flight, and Select Mode. Select Cruise Mode. This will do
several things. Mainly, it will disconnect the External Support.
Secondly, it will activate the Warp generator, and set it to 
25% (minimum output). This is important as you cannot travel
anywhere if you have External Support.

Go to Engineering. Don't worry about the error flag just yet.
Select Display Use ("q"). This gives you a 
complete report on how much energy is being used against their
allocations. Important ones to note are:
	
	Tactical: Shields - If this is lower than 1920, shields
	won't work at their maximum.

	Propulsion: Warp Engines - If this is zero, then you cannot
	travel at warp.

	Evironment: Pressure - If this is zero, then you will all
	explode in a vacuum!!

	Fuel: Matter/Anti-Matter - Once either of these reach zero, 
	you cannot power ANY reactors! 


What can be done about any of these things? Well, the shield allocation
is easy enough to change, and is often used in combat situations. It
is advised to practise changing it.

The same is true for the warp engines. Just change the allocation as before.

Let's play with the pressure...

If you are using External Support, then it doesn't matter how much energy
is diverted from the generators, the external supply keeps Life Support
functioning. Now that we are in Cruise mode, though, it can be life or
death.

Change the allocation to 30. This is half the maximum value. Note that
there has been no effect on the running of the ship. This is because
varius sections of the ship will have been evacuated because of the
command, and so the remaining energy is used to pressurise only
inhabited areas of the ship.

Now lower it to 29. You will find that yellow alert has been actiavted,
and that you can't shut it off. This is because the pressure is below
acceptable limits. If the pressure becomes seriously low, then red alert
will continuously sound.

Reset the allocation to 60.

What about fuel? When that gets low, you have to reduce the amount of
fuel that you are using. The best way to do that is to go to Flight and
select Reduced Power Mode. This will disable the warp generator (as this
used far more fuel than the impulse generator) and reduces non-essential
systems to zero. The warp generator can still be manually turned on.

Every time you visit a starbase, you will be refuelled and the hull will
be repaired. Starbases are easy to find - they are always called
"Starbase S" where S=Sector number. So, your current nearest starbase is
Starbase 13. 


Most functions such as warp drive or repairing will typically increase
the generators output if more energy is required. You can also manually
change this by selecting Allocations in Engineering, and Change Output.

Last but not least, you can also force Yellow or Red Alert by pressing
"y" or "r" respectively. This can be useful if you are expecting an 
attack, and don't want to wait for them to arrive before you start warming
up weapons.


Once you are done playing, repair that problem with the Other system!

Mission 6
~~~~~~~~~ 

This is the final mission of the tutorial. This will involve an 
actual combat situation.

Plot a course to Sledge, and engage warp. I suggest a slow warp to
give you time to read the next section....

Once you reach Sledge, yellow alert will be sounded. This will set your
offensive weapons to 25%. You have two choices- either call Red Alert
to raise shields and fully arm weapons, or go to Tactical and do it
all yourself.

Remember you can always cancel the klaxon by pressing Escape.

Go to tactical.

Lock onto target.

Make sure that shields are online, and then fire at the ship.

Continue firing until he runs away.

During the battle, you can either flip to Engineering and
reallocate energy to the shields, or just keep firing
and hope that you don't die before he runs away! 

(For this particular battle, you should be able to just fire 
constantly....)

Once he's run away, repair any damage.


END OF TUTORIAL

You can now continue playing (eg travel to a starbase for repairs etc.),
load a new mission by pressing "M", or quit by pressing CTRL + c.

I sincerely hope you have fun with StarTrek:The Next Generation! 
