
                       Microlyte Warriors V0.9 (24.4.96)
                       ---------------------------------
                              By Stephen Birch
                                (c) 1995/96

                           GFX by Richard Whittall

                              Aminet Beta Demo 
                                                
Welcome to this eary preview of Microlyte Warriors, a groovy new flying/
shooting/strategy game for the Amiga. This version is for AGA Amigas only, though
there will also be a (slightly less colourful) ECS version and maybe a gfx board
version if I'm not abused for not doing one now...

Please note the game is far from complete - very little work has yet been put into
the 3D objects, computer AI, random map generator or gameplay... The frame rate
should also improve substantially as objects are optimised. Apologies for the "rough
edged" nature of this demo, but I want to let the masses see it now...

The finished game will feature the following:
- Many different planes with different weapons and flight models 

- Strategy element with building of factories, mines, oilrigs etc to produce the
raw materials to upgrade planes and weapons. Roads will have to be built allowing
trucks to transport the goods, and of course be hunted down by other player ;)
There also be a quickstart option for those who just like action...

- Multiple players via split screen and serial link.

- different scenarios, seasons , day & night.

Main features of the 3D engine include:
- Fully graduated sky and ground
- Depth faded ground objects
- underground canyons/trenches
- Multiplayer support, including split screen
- Light source shading
- Action replay, and flight recorder
- Outside views with "intelligent" camera
- Easy to use editor, for setting up scenarios, flight models etc
- Ability to import 3D objects from Modeler3D, Imagine, Lightwave etc
- User friendly GUI for putting together worlds


The Demo
--------

This demo features 4 planes - 2 computer controlled, and 2 human. The computer planes
are out to get player 1 (controlled by the joystick) and will ignore the other player
(on mouse/joystick1). The play area consists of randomly generated lakes, rivers, fields
and mountains. There are also a few other basic objects around to crash into... You can
make your own road network using the "make roads" option. This will bring up a map
window, which can be scrolled by clicking on it with the LMB, and  zoomed by holding the
LMB and moving the mouse up/down. Press "n" to overlay object names, and "g" for a grid.
Pressing the RMB will place a road segment in the current square. If the road crossed a
river, a bridge will automatically be built...

You can view the action from any object in the game. Particulary useful in conjunction
with the action reply feature ("r" key) to view the last 30 seconds from a differnt 
point of view :) The options button, or pressing Esc in the game bring up the options
window. From here you can select the object view for each window, and change the screen
size to obtain a better frame rate on slower Amigas.

When flying, the on screen data available is: top left - speed, altitude, top right x/y
coordinates. The bars are: fuel (top left), damage (top right) and ammo (below damage).

Apologies for painfully slow loading from floppy disk - this is due to the large amount
of small data files, and will be sorted out in the full game... Also apologies for
a minor bug or two - these will be sorted too ;)

Also included is a semi-functional save disabled version of the editor, that will be
released with the game, alowing creation of new scenarios/flight models/objects/sounds/
gfx etc. Hopefully this will cause lots of new stuff to appear on aminet ;) I'm not
typing any instructions for it here, but feel free to play...

This demo must be run after setpatch, and needs diskfont.library and mathtrans.library in
libs: and the microlyte and xen fonts in the fonts directory.

In flight Keys
--------------

Keys for the main program are:

Esc   : Options - allows you to chose split screen / one window. You can also
        change the plane for the view(s) and the 2nd object for the intelligent
        camera mode.

v     : External view - when selected:
   -  : zoom out
   +  : zoom in  (or was it the other way round?)
   Cursors to change camera view

   t: View from intelligent camera on/off
   s: Rotating view in intelligent camera mode

p     : Pause (you can still change camera views and switch on camera rotation etc)

r     : Action replay of the last ~30 seconds. When the replay is finished, pause
       will be on - press p to continue or r to replay again.


Player 1 (Joystick)
f1-f10: Thrust for plane controled by joyport 2
b     : Brake
g     : Landing Gear - only (semi) functional on bird-plane atm
z/x   : rudder

Player 2 (Mouse or Joystick in port 1)
1-0   : Thrust for plane controlled by joyport 1
j     : Switch between joystick/mouse for joyport 1
n     : Brake
h     : Landing gear


Hope you enjoy the demo as much as I've enjoyed creating it, and buy the game when
it comes out.

Thanks for help and inspiration go to Ted Baily, Simon Armstrong, Richard Whittall,
Ian Bale, Geoff Adams and Dawn Howard (the last 2 were actually more of a distraction)
;)

For any extra info email me at steveb@mistral.co.uk