




                       T.V. Sports Basketball Editor 

                                Version 2.22
                                  31/7/94

                         gregtg@mundil.cs.mu.oz.au

                                Greg Bradley
                            Lot 77c Hearse Road
                          Millgrove, Victoria 3799
                                 Australia






1. Introduction
---------------
	This program was primarily created because my brother, Jeff, wanted
	some more realism in his basketball games. As an avid N.B.A. follower
	he wanted to see the right team names, player names, numbers, heights
	and some more realistic attributes in his own games.

	TVSBBE is a program that allows you to edit the data files for the
	Cinemaware T.V. Sports Basketball game to configure the teams and
	players to be anything you want. You can edit team names, coaches
	names, players names, players heights, players numbers and the six
	available player attributes - Shooting, Passing, Defense, Rebounding,
	Quickness and Jumping. Unlike the editor built into the T.V. Sports
	Basketball game the values of the player attributes are not
	restricted in any way.

2. Copyright
------------
	This program and its accompanying documentation are the property of
	the above mentioned author. However, the program may be freely
	distributed as long as all documentation remains unchanged and
	accompanies the program and no fee is charged other than to cover
	nominal disk costs.

3. Requirements
---------------
	An Amiga computer and the Cinemaware T.V. Sports Basketball game.

	The program should work on ALL Amigas!

4. The Program
--------------
	The program may be run from Workbench just by double-clicking the
	TVSBBE icon or it may be run from CLI without any command line
	parameters. You will then need to insert your T.V. Sports Basketball
	game Reel2: disk into any drive and the program will load the data
	files.

	Using the keys on the numeric keypad (or the corresponding number
	keys) you can now edit your teams. Using the up/down/left/right keys
	you can highlight the team you want to edit. To edit the name of the
	currently highlighted team press SPACE and the team name will be
	cleared and a cursor presented where you can enter the team name.
	All alphabetic characters will automatically be converted to
	uppercase and only characters that are legal for the data files may
	be entered. Pressing TAB will move the cursor to the team name
	abbreviation field.

	To edit the players of a team, press 5 when the desired team is
	highlighted. Use the up/down keys to highlight the player you want to
	edit. Pressing SPACE will allow you to edit the player name in the
	same manner as editing the team name. Pressing right and then using
	the left/right keys you can select a player attribute which can be
	altered by using the up/down keys. To select another player to edit,
	just press left until only the player name is highlighted and no
	attributes are highlighted and then you can use the up/down keys to
	highlight another player. Pressing 5 at anytime while editing the
	players will return the cursor selection to the team menu.

	To save the changes made to the data file you MUST select the save
	button using 5 and the save button will change to indicate that the
	data files are being saved. Select the exit button to exit. 
	NOTE: just exiting will NOT save the changes made.

5. Acknowledgments
------------------
	T.V. Sports Basketball is a copyright of Cinemaware.

	The program was compiled using PCQ by Patrick Quaid.
	
6. The Future
-------------
	Any bug reports or comments can be directed to the author at the
	above email address. Hopefully I will be able to fix any bugs and
	incorporate any	suggestion into future versions.

	Some of the plans I have for future versions are screen dragging and
	lowering (should be simple when I find out how it is done) and
	eventually a mouse driven version.







