
                        ARMOUR GEDDON MISSION DISK DOCS!

                                Typed by: BamBam

                             CLASSIC RAGES IN 1991

This disk features four saved positions which allow you to begin playing the
game of various stages of advancement.

There follows an example of the tactics employed to reach each saved 
position.

* indicates the point at which you can take over.


Go to LOAD GAME to play these missions!


MISSION #1
----------

Mission information tells me of a neutron bomb detonator at co-ordinates 44,
-10. Intelligence indentifies a deserted airstrip at that point, just east
of my base.

Intelligence also defects substantial enemy activity in that area.

A heavy tank would seem the safest vehicle with which to go and collect the
first part of the neutron bomb, but that enemy activity could make the pick-
up tricky. I send out a fighter to try and deplete thier forces before i 
dispatch a heavy tank. The tank should make it to the detonator's location
and back to base before darkness falls, so night sight wont be required.
I give here threee payloads of IR missiles so my tank will have little or 
nothing to do when it gets to the airstrip.

Checking out my stores i see i dont actually have any missiles so i get my 
boffins and engineers working on building up stocks - i have plenty of
recources. While im in R & D i also need a bomber or two... and a couple of
telepods wouldnt be a bad idea.

Its too far to drive the tank to the denonator so ill utilise a bomber to
drop a telepod near it after the fighter takes off.

I access intelligence to give my vehicles a waypoint to the abandoned air-
strip then enter research & Development to start developing missiles,
bombers and telepods.

Once the missiles are ready i load up the fighter adn ascend to the surface.

Thundering down the runway, almost at takeoff spreed (around 112mph with 
this payload) and im already under attack. Two enemy fighters seem to not
want me to make it to the detonator.

Enemy fighter tactics are basically to get behind a target and lock on wiht
missiles. My flares should divert a few missiles but survival depends on
my getting behind the enemy and locking on to him with my own IRs.
To get a better idea of enemy positions i reduce my radar range to 4km and
watch out for red dots. Red dots spell danger!

The one enemy fighter is a doddle to get behind: once i have speed i simply
loop the loop, turn over, lock on and fire... bye bye baby.

His partner is different kettle of fish: Blast! He's hit me! Luckily the
shield holds. Turn you crate, Turn! Check the radar: he's southeast of me
... TURN!

There he is... keep him in the HUD, steady, locked On! FIRE!, FIRE!

Damn! Hes dodged my first... come on, come on! My missle is turning to 
chase him... hes dispatching flares. Lost him! Another loop the loop,
turn over, there he is again! locked on! FIRE!... Got 'I'm! I love the
smell of burning enemy in the morning! ill follow him down: just to
make sure!

DEAD MEAT.

Now, wheres the detonator?

Im a few kms away yet, I might aswell take out some powerline generators
on the way.

Theres the airfield, a couple of fly-overs, discharging missiles as i go,
should make the place safe enough for the bomber.

Enemy ground forces are attacking me but if i keep on the move i should
be able to make a couple of useful runs before having to return to base
to refuel.

Activatiing my base waypoint i leave the fighter to find itw own way back
while i load up the bomber.

Time is marching on so i give the bomber night-sight as well as two
telepods.

Following a trouble-free take-off i set a waypoint for the bomber to
coordinates 44, -10

A quiet flight takes me to waypoint 1 and i successfully drop the first
telepod.

Using my video panel on the bombers control deck i head to coordinates
111, 1 to drop another telepod near a neutron fuel cell (information
related to me by mission intelligence).

My video display tells me im almost there... telepod away!

I set the base waypoint for the bomber.

Dear diary - The bomber was unfortunately shot down by enemy helicopters
on its return flight. *


MISSION #2
----------

I ready a heavy tank for piloting.

Arming it with lasers, i take the tank outside and reverse into the base 
telepod. Teleporting from here to the first telepod takes but a moment.

Checking out my intelligence screen i zoom in on teh locale of my tank 
and see the neutron bomb detonator (shown as a circle with three blades
protuding), I set a waypoint for my tank in the exact centre of the
detonator and return to the cockpit.

By simply trundling over the detonator i pick it up (neutron bomb parts
actually look like three connected cubes) and automatically transport 
it back to base - I check my stores to confirm its successful pick-up.

Utilising my telepod beacon i head back to telepod 1 and successfully
teleport to telepod 2.

Again using my intelligence screen i give the tank a waypoint for the
centre of the neutron bomb fuel cell and head for it. My stores screen
confirms i now have 40% of the neutron bomb in stock.

I teleport the tank back to base. *


MISSION #3
----------

Using the tower view to check out enemy activity outside base i see 
that things are really hotting up:

Enemy helicopters are just waiting for me to send another vehicle out, 
if i did it would be sitting duck for those choppers, expecially as they
re probably carrying IRs

Ive got to do something about it, I need to get another bomber airborne
. I decide to fight fire with fire and i build myself a helicopter.

Arming it with three payloads of missiles (Im Glad i left my engineers 
building them while i picked up those first two parts of the neutron
bomb) i quickly enter teh lift, raise it and take off. Choppers are
great for just hovering and picking off potential with IRs. The Knack
is to gain height on your enemy as the nose of the chopper needs to be
dipped to catch other craft in your HUD.

In this particular case i managed to gain 500 feet in 12 seconds (not
bad with this payload). unfortunately i find myself on the exploding end
of two enemy missiles... both hit, hard!

My shields are dented but they hold out. Activating payload 1, i study
my radar to discover three enemy choppers hind me. Using my rudders, I
turn. It seems to take an age to get them in my sights, during which time
my machine is hit by another missle... my shields suffer damage.

Eventually, there, in my sights, are two enemy choppers, lock on and fire
! Change target, lock on and fire! two down one to go. i see hes on the 
move, maybe hes out of weapons and is returning to base... maybe hes just
running. either way hes mine! speed is of the essence here, so now that 
ive got the height (about 5000 feet) i use the control stick rather than
rudders to turn and dive quickly.

Now facing north... and there he is, Damn! hes locked on to me, i hope my
shields have enough strenght to stand another more hit... fire! my flares!
ofcourse! i let three flares go in the hope of diverting his missle and i
hang on and wait for my missile to hit home. as i wait, i fire another
flare and another missile.. well, you cant be too carefull.

I hit him. Down he goes.

Now, leaving the chopper to its own devices i go back to the equipment
screen and ready antoher bomber. checking my tower view i see its getting
dark so i load the bomber with night-sight and two more telepods (once 
ive had them developed and built).

I was glad to experience a quiet flight to coordinates 127,88 where i 
dropped a telepod.

My next destination is to coordinates 126, 62, the locale of the neutron
bombs radiation shielding. again, an eventful flight (apart from teh
worryingly-low amount of fuel in my tanks) and a successful telepod drop.

Unfortunately. on its return flight to base my bomber ran out of fuel
and plunged into a lake. *


MISSION #4
----------

Reading the indicator on my headquarters screen, i see that the enemy
bearn weapon is gaining power, i decide to launch a fighter equipped with
three payloads of missiles to wipe out a few powerline generators.

I fly norht for a few kms then begin a wide, low circle, i meet little
enemy resistance and basically use the generators for a bit of target
practice.

This little exercise gives me more time to complete my mission.

Returning to my Research And development screen i build another night-sight
and load it, along with lasers, on to my heavy tank and teleport to the next
two bomb parts.

Enemy activity is high but the heavy tank can take alot of punishment.

Unfortunately, the problem with this type of tank is that although its good
for receiving punishment its not so hot at dishing it out - especially 
against aircraft - due to its limited firing field and inabillity to carry
missiles.

With this in mind. each time i use the tank to collect bomb parts i try to
get in and out of danger zones as quickly as possible.

Now, with four sections of the neutorn bomb safely in stock and with just
enough time to find the last bit and reach the keep in which the enemy
cannon is housed... *


-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-


Woow at last im finished with typing these docs! Oh well sometimes i wonder
why i type in these docs! who reads them anyway? 
Something about ARMOUR GEDDON! i think this is 1 of the best games from
psygnosis! too bad you guys have to do it with a none working version of the
company! i suggest you go out and buy the original of ARMOUR GEDDON!

                                BamBam/CLASSIC!


