                      Bane of the Cosmic Forge
                         Clues and Hints

                   Brought to you by "Superbeagle"

First let's have some greetings to all my friends and contacts:
"The Dutchman" "Tarheel" "Spazm" "Bigfoot" "Mighty Quinn" "Sycon"
"Dr. Reynolds" "Damage Inc" "Tech" "Orion Hunter" and many more too many
to mention, but not forgotten!!

And greetings to the best DAMN Cracking Group in the business (SKID ROW)!!!
Keep those wares coming in. (hehehe)

As some of you know, I left for the "Gulf" on 28 Dec 90, and returned back
to the good old U.S.A. on 20 May 91. Hell of a war (hahaha) as much shit as
that dumb son of a bitch (Saddam) talked about kicking our asses and instead
we kicked his in 100 hours, this file is dedicated to all those guys and girls
who like me, had to go the Gulf to kick ass. Hell of a job guys!!!

I wrote this file because I got tired of getting killed playing Bane of the
Cosmic Forge, I couldn't get anywhere. I read some of the clues from the
files that were uploaded pertaining to this fine game, and found out 
(The hard way) that many of the so call clues and hints did not worked.


  1..  The Key of spades is located in a room in the SW corner of second
       floor (take stairs in middle of long hall on west side of 1st level)

  2..  To get lots of experience points: Go to Queegueg's shop, enter and
       exit. Turn right, go forward 2 spaces. Turn left, go to end of hall
       turn right, go all the way down and pass through the 2 doors. Save
       game here!! Go up stairs and hold finger on left or right turn key
       This will spin you around, which attracts wandering monsters you
       can fight for lots points.

   3.. To Kill the Vampire and Rebecca: Use the silver cross, equip first
       3 party members with holy stakes of wood. Use holy water, equip 
       mirrors. Cast web and anti-magic on rebecca (That's the green
       girl that looks like dolly parton) proceed to kick ass. You can
       get the silver cross from the queen, the holy water from the monk's
       bodz behind secret door in enchanted forest, holy stakes can be found
       on the ship and the rocks of reflection (mirrors) by breaking the
       mirror rock in the enchanted forest with your pick.

   4.. To read the kings diary you must use the ring of stars.

   5.. To enter the Temple of Ramm and to cross the pit you must first
       equip the first character with goat's mask and the staff of ramm.

   6.. Use tinkerbell at circle of stone in enchanted forest to summon
       the queen of the fairies (no we're not talking about california)
       ask her what to say to delphi, this is also your last chance to
       to stock up on supplies, spend most of your money, since delphi
       will take all of your cash (just like your wife) in exchange
       for the staff of ramm.

   7.. To get the silver key, you must bring "snoopcheri" to L'Montes
       in the tower and he'll give you the key.

   8.. To find old snoopcheri you must use the rotten cheese in front of
       the small hole (mouse hole) in room with graffiti on barracks level
       of the castle.

   9.. To cross the dungeon gorge (That's a hole for you ignoramus) take the
       silver key to the captain's den. use the password to get in
       password is "skeleton crew" you need about 500 gold pieces to drink
       the tavern keeper unconscious. Open grate to get steel hook, use book
       of ramm for instructions to open the trap door in temple, cast all your
       preparatory spells to improve offense and defense, press the following
       goat-goat-orb-staff-orb. after this be prepared to kick ass with some
       bad ass snakes. This will give you access to the dungeon area, to
       reenter castle you must find dungeon key and bell key. Open locked
       door and get heavy rope, merge rope with hook to cross the gorge in
       dungeon, once you cross the gorge, be prepared to kick booty or to
       get your booty whoop, there's some bad mothers here. save often!!

  10.. In the Pyramid: Get the bone key from the teleporting treasure chest
       use something sticky (you'll find something sticky in the pyramid
       after killing a monster) to get the chest. To open the door to the
       area with the teleporting chest, you must push a button behind a
       secret door, make sure you get the right button, since there are
       several buttons that do nothing at all. Find an empty sack in one
       of the chests, fill it with sand found in a dead end corridor in
       lowest level of the pyramid. The bone key will open 2 gates in the
       pyramid, be sure to find all the buttons along the walls in this
       area. Explore the pits here too, one near the end of the hall will
       have something very important in it, again make sure you find all
       the buttons to open the gate and disarm the traps. There is a well
       protected shrine in this area, use the bag of sand, just like indy
       did in "Indiana Jones" at the shrine to get the idol. Use the idol
       to open gate at other end of the pyramid. Do not kill the Amazulu
       Queen, give her a gift (anything) and you'll be able to talk to the
       high priestess, buy the foot powder from her.

  12.. To break the diamonds use miner's chisel on all four sides, then go
       to the South West corner and search until you find the fault line
       use the chisel and if necessary the pick to break the barrier, at
       the altar, press symbols in the following order: 2nd-2nd-1st-3rd-
       1st. 

  13.. The security code for the end of the game is "The hand of Destiny"

  14.. An effective party to have is: Lord/Ranger/Priest/Mage/Samurai/
       Ninja, a bard is also good since they have magic powers when playing
       instruments. Make sure that you have atleast one "Female" in the
       party, as there are places in the game that only a female can complete.
       After advancing to a new level, use some of your skill points to
       increase magical study and scouting skills, these 2 skills do not
       change automatically when you advance to a new level. You must have
       a skilled thief to be able to open all the doors, once a door is 
       jammed, you can almost forget about opening that door again. Chests
       are nearly always booby-trapped.  

  15.. From the start: Go north into the alcove, then go thru left or right
       door (they both go to the same place) go north along either wall
       to find 2 chests, neither is trapped, one has scrolls and amulet of
       life and the other has a sword +1, go north and use the fountain.
       in back of the fountain are 2 sets of stairs and a door in the middle,
       go thru the door to the gate, open gate by pushing button next to the
       wall, go inside and kill the snake (sometimes is a different kind of
       monster) search until you find the key of ramm in the northwest corner.
       Go south back to the entrance gate, go east enter first south door for
       another chest. Items in this area are randomized. Stay on level one
       until you've entered all doors and gained enough experience points.
       The next area is reached by going downstairs in the southeast corner.
 
  16.. Snoopcheri is a stuffed beagle (no, not superbeagle) you must give
       him to L'Montes.

  17.. Useful passwords are (1) Skeleton Crew (2) Giant Mountain.

  18.. There's a locked door near the queen's bedroom that can't be opened,
       so don't waste time on it. Find the 2 secret passages near the king's
       bedroom instead. The code for the altar is in his diary, the "use"
       command let's you read it. Important keys to find:
       Gold/Silver/Spade/Ramm/Jailer/Dungeon. there is an important secret
       passage in the room with the graffiti on wall, you must have the
       rotten cheese with you.


Special Note:

Well this is all I been able to find out so far, I should be finished with
game by june the 10th, and I'll do a complete walk-thru then if you guys
playing the game want one, leave me mail under "Superbeagle" at any of
the following boards:

Fear and Loathing/H.M.S. Bounty/Bigfoot/Spazm/Coliseum/Utopia/Motherboard II/
Nasty Boyz (forgot their new name) and or Optical Illusions (forgot their new
name too, shit)

Well that's all folks, this file was completed at 1:12 am on 4 jun 91
by "Superbeagle"

P.S. there's a file going around called BOTCF-TR.dms which is suppossed to 
     be a trainer for this game, but in actuallity is a trainer for bard's
     tale 3, so don't get it.