

                              CARDIAC ARREST!
                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


CARDIAC  ARREST!  simulates a dying patient.  It starts with basic data such
as  blood  chemistry,  temperature,  pre-existing health problems, and heart
damage.   Based  on  probabilities,  it  determines  what is the most likely
patient  status,  and  then  returns  to you the ekg and vital signs for the
patient.   When  you  want  to order something, you type your order in plain
English,  then  press  the  RETURN  key.   Your  order is processed, and the
program again calculates the patient's status.

Following  most  orders,  the  patient's  clock time is advanced one minute.
After  about  20 'minutes', if you're ready, you can transfer the patient to
the  ICU  and  get  an analysis of your efforts.  You can go to the analysis
program at anytime by typing the word QUIT.

Should  you  decide  to  exit  the  program  without  an  analysis  of  your
performance,  you  can  press  the  escape  key.   You  may  then  start the
resuscitation  over,  go  back  to the patient choosing menu, or exit to the
desktop.

Orders  for bolus (I.V.  push) drugs must be complete--this means drug name,
dose,  units, and route (if not IV).  If the order isn't complete, the nurse
will  tell  you  what's  missing, but you must enter the entire order again.
With infusions, however, just tell the nurse what drug infusion you want set
up.   You'll  be asked for the rate of infusion later.  This includes saline
or ringer's as well as drug 'drips'.

Unlike  the  average  nurse,  the  simulator can only remember one step at a
time.   It  tries  to keep you from accidentally entering odd orders, but if
you try to give two orders at the same time, strange things may happen.  For
example,  if you type START I.V.  AND GIVE 2 AMPS BICARB the nurse will tell
you there isn't an I.V.  yet.  Remember:  one step.

Another  picky  detail  in  'version  1.0'  is that doses MUST be entered as
NUMBERS  (digits)  and  not as words!  And there must be a space between the
numeric dose and the units--that is, '35cc' will not be correct, but '35 cc'
will  be.   But  don't  sweat  the details.  The nurse will tell you exactly
what's wrong in an incorrectly entered order.

The  defibrillator is initially set at 200 joules.  You don't need to always
specify the setting, but be careful--you might severely injure a baby if the
nurse doesn't think to question the charge setting.

You're  expected  to  order blood gases and electrolytes.  When the lab tech
says  the  results  will  be back in 5 minutes, he's not referring to actual
clock time.  It means the program time you see on the screen.

If you don't have any order to enter, you can either press the RETURN key to
advance  one  minute,  or  order  OBSERVE 6 MINUTES to advance the clock six
minutes.  Observation stops when lab returns or an I.V.  is started, or when
the  patient  has bad vital signs.  You can break into the observation cycle
by  touching any key.  If you forget the patient's story or weight, just ask
for  the  HISTORY.   By asking to CHEAT, you can see the patient's diagnosis
and teaching points.

Brand  names,  generic  names, and slang terms are usually recognized by the
program.  Further information is found in the manual.

CARDIAC  ARREST!   attempts  to simulate a real life situation as much as is
possible.   Consequently,  it's  possible  to  take the correct actions, and
still  have  your  patient's status get worse.  If you're ordering something
totally  stupid,  or giving a whopping overdose of a drug, the nursing staff
will  often  catch  your  errors--but not always.  Just like real life, this
simulation allows you to learn from your mistakes the hard way!

Keep  a  flowsheet.   Recording  your  orders helps you figure out where you
fouled up.  You may copy the sample flowsheet provided with the manual.  The
most  common  cause  of problems is misspelled orders, or failure to leave a
space  between  the  numeric  dose and the units of measure (such as MG, CC,
AMPS).   Watch as the program analyzes your order to see what it recognizes.
Any  words  which the program doesn't echo back to you are NOT recognized by
the program's vocabulary search.

Good luck.


