
                     CHAMBERS OF SHAOLIN - Documents

                        By Brainslayer for SUPREME

 1. Description of the Game

Hang Foy Qua,the hero of this story finally reached the monastry of shao-lin
after a long exhausting way and was accepted as a novice.He has to conquer
the Chambers of shao-lin . Each of these Chambers will help to unite body
and mind in harmony.we will assist Hang Foy Qua on his troublesome way to
become a master . therefore we will pass six selected chambers to help him .
Hang Foy Qua , aware of the big resposibility for his people and his sister
, will try to pass the examination with the best results he is able to get .
The better these results are the easier his fight against his enemies will
be !

                             S I - Z H I - B A N 
                              test of the stick
 In this chamber Hang Foy Qua's concentration will be improved and sharpened
 by constant training .
 The master attacks him with a bo (a long stick). He may srike to the head
 , the body or to the legs . Because it will only be obvious at the last
 moment where the master strikes the bo , Hang Foy Qua has to concentrate
 to react quickly enough to avoid the blows.
 
 Joy-Control: 


      Stick up     -     JUMP

      Stick down   -     DUCK

      Stick left/right - GO FORWARD/BACKWARD



                       S I - Z H I - R O U - L U A N G
                              Test of Agility


 In this chamber his reacton will be tested and also the control of the
 Flic-Flac , a very quick evasie movement . Here Hang Foy Quo needs to
 escape several objects wich move in different trajectories . Each
 collision with one of this objects costs him some of his power. Only by
 touching the YIN & YANG sign will he incease his power . If he whishes to
 use the Flic - Flac in a fight , he has to pass this test

 Joy - Control :


      Stick up       -   Flic-Flac

      Stick left/right  - Go Left/Right

      Stick up/Button   - Jump

      Stick down/Button - Duck

      Button            - Turn around



                     S I - Z H I - J U N G - S I
                           Test of balance


 In this chamber the take off power will be trained.Hang Foy has to jump to
 and between four rising and sinking poles . By following the signal you
 must successfully land on ten poles in a little time as possible . If Hang
 Foy Qua tumbels into the water he must go back again and try again


 Joy - Control :


     Stick right  -  the jump from the veranda to the first pole happens
                     automattically after moving the joystick RIGHT

     Stick left/right - Turn left/right

     Button           - Jump


                       S I - Z H I - K U A I
                           Test of speed


 In this chamber a kick will be taught . The Hero's objective is to hit
 and release a mechanism fixed at the highest reachable point thus enabling
 him to keep his feet dry . this can only be achieved by repeatedly kicking
 a ball and making it swing .He not only has to look out for the constantl