
         This file contains a walk-through of the opening level of
         Chaos Strikes Back, so don't read it if you're one of those
         picky people who like to do things for yourselves.  These
         notes are from about four hours of mapping this level and
         should be the most efficient way to run it -- remember, we're
         on a time limit.


         Where to begin?  How about in the dark, menaced by three
         golden worms.  If the darkness bothers you, turn left and put
         your hand down at the lower left of the screen and pick up
         the torch lying there.  Put it in somebody's hand.  Now, if
         you have some hale characters, stand your ground and fireball
         the worms to death. About three mon-level each should do it.
         Afterward, pick up anything within reach -- particularly the
         coins and iron key they drop.  Get the worm slices for snacks
         later.  Make a note of where you are and never step into that
         square again!  Take a step away and look back.  You'll see
         one of the stones in the floor is kind of octagonal-shaped.
         It's a button.  Each time you step on it, two more worms
         appear nearby.  It LOOKS like you need to use that door to
         exit, but don't be fooled.  Walk around the room, pick up the
         gold Gor coins.  You will have enough to purchase items from
         three of the rooms hidden behind blue force fields.  Get all
         but the red and green vials (fire and poison bombs).  You
         need the compas and rope especially. There are many confusing
         passages and a zillion trap doors.  After this, go to the
         east wall.  Above, you'll notice a bunch of trap doors
         (indicating a floor above). Two "paces" north from the coin
         slot in the southeast corner is a space between two trap
         doors.  Walk through the wall and into a small alcove with a
         full suit of chain mail.  Distribute it amongst your
         characters.  Better than ragged pants?

         After this, take one of the many torches and go to the west
         wall and put it in the torch holder.  A wall just opened at
         the northwest corner.  Walk into it, noticing wall says "Run
         and Jump."  Using the cursor keys, hit the up arrow seven
         times rapidly (don't wait to move, just hit the keys). You
         will trip a button causing the trapdoor you see near the end
         to close just as you pass over it and onto a trip plate that
         seals the trap and opens up a section of wall northwest.
         Some flying creatures may buzz out of this wall, but you
         should be able to deal with them.  Turn to face the way you
         came.  Hit the up cursor and right cursor so you turn the
         corner.  Notice the trap doesn't stay closed for long, so you
         must not pause while on it. (You would fall two stories to
         "The Junction of the Ways," which is ahead of where you
         should be. Walk south down this twisty corridor 'til you come












         to the pressure plate. Notice it closes the trap in front of
         you -- like 99 percent of the traps, it doesn't stay closed
         long.  Get the timing down on this trap, then when you're
         ready, face east, trip the plate, sidestep south twice so
         that you're between the traps, pick up the flask in front of
         you and sidestep to the south twice again.  The hallway you
         just passed is the one you avoided by not opening the door to
         the first room.  I haven't seen a need to use this room yet,
         but you can get back to it by the plate at the end of "Run
         and Jump."

         Walk around the corner and go west until you come to a grate
         and a staircase. The flying monsters mentioned earlier live
         behind the grate. Go downstairs. You'll be standing between
         two pits. Walk one square forward to the writing that says
         "To the Junction of the Ways."  DO NOT MOVE EAST OR WEST ONTO
         THE PLATES. Face west.  Take EVERYTHING off your characters
         and throw it west. You'll get it back in a minute.  Make sure
         your characters are rested, then walk east. The plate turns
         on a transporter mist that takes whatever is there to the
         Junction.  Don't step into it. Instead, turn south and walk
         into the hole!  You'll hit ground two stories later in a
         one-room cubicle with the phrase, "Surrender Your
         Possessions." If you're truly nude (no clothes, no items), a
         wall will open to the south.  Otherwise, you will have to
         drop everything into nowheresville (losing it more than
         likely forever).  Go south, pick up the iron key on the floor
         and step into the transporter.  You are now back on the level
         with the pit you walked into, only you are to the west and
         standing near a Medusa fountain amidst all the possessions
         you flung there moments ago. Take your flask and drink up.
         Pick up everything, then wander around the room to the west
         and pick up the two keys and chest of food. The stairs lead
         to a dead end.

         Go back to the plates and transporter near the stairs.
         (Don't drop down the other pit -- there's no other key down
         there.)  Use a key to turn off the mist then go back
         upstairs.  Use a key to open the grate.  Walk inside,
         watching for flying creatures. Stop around the corner when
         you see a bow in a shelf in front and a trapdoor open to the
         left.  THIS IS A ROOM YOU WILL WANT TO SAVE IN OFTEN.  You
         will frequently fall down traps. It's better to kill yourself
         downstairs and restore than to use up your keys.  Almost all
         the floor spaces here are traps.  This is the back door to
         the "Supplies for the Quick" room.  Each time you step on a
         square, a trap door will open underneath you in a half-second
         or so.  In other words, to get anything out of this room, you
         can't dilly-dally.  I recommend using your cursor keys to
         move and the mouse to grab one thing per trip.  There are
         some nice weapons here, including a mace and a Staff of
         Illya, which increases your mana by 10 points when in a
         player's active hand. The important thing about this room is
         that the pillar in the middle is between the two exits.  Off












         to the east is a corridor. It ends with a solid piece of
         floor next to a keyhole and a trapdoor.  This trap is below
         another one and leads to the trap we walked into downstairs
         -- in other words it's a four-story drop.  Use a key to shut
         this trap door.  I suspect that the game ends on the floor
         above and you will rather drop one floor instead of four.
         Save.  Face south. Dance right and grab the things from the
         shelf one at a time, dancing left to safety.  Face the
         keyhole, take your last key in the mouse-hand and place it at
         keyhole level.  Don't put it in the lock!  We are merely
         positioning the hand.  Use left hand on cursor keys to face
         south and sidestep left; push the mouse button with your
         right hand to put the key in the lock and then get out of the
         room or step back onto the trap door that closed when you
         used the key.  You now have another solid piece of floor and
         more prevention from falling four stories later.  Save again.
         Practice going through the room picking things up.  Save when
         successful, restore when you fall through the floor.  At some
         point, you need to go to the actual entrance to the room to
         the north.  Beyond it is a small open area with a staircase
         going up.  It leads to a heavy-duty metal door that I haven't
         been able to open.  Back at the small open area, if you go to
         the east, you'll come to the pressure plate at the end of
         "Run and Jump."  At this point, you suspect there is more
         dungeon to the north but can't get to it.  Same with me --
         what a coincidence!

         At this point, my walk-through of the opening level ends.
         The next step I've found is the Junction, which you can reach
         by dropping through the "R&J" pit or by going back
         downstairs, tripping the transporter and stepping into it.

         The Junction is pretty tricky.  Each way you face, a wall
         opens up showing an Altar of Vi and an object inside it.
         What lies beyond them appears to be a random selection of
         different mazes.  Stepping to the Altar closes the wall
         behind you.  If you pick up the object and put it back before
         walking too far away, the wall will reopen.  As you walk down
         the corridor past the altar, at some point an iron key should
         appear in the altar.  Go back and get it.  You'll be getting
         into some serious monsters soon, with some good things like
         more keys, etc.  One room has about six giant spiders and
         lots of screamers.  Luckily, it has a button door entrance so
         you can use it as a weapon on the spiders.  Be careful of
         hidden trapdoors in this part of the dungeon.  You can tell
         them by outlines on the floor (as opposed to "Supplies,"
         which had no outlines). Beyond this is a room where every
         step generates a weak monster from a pit in the floor.  I
         advise casting a poison cloud over it and going to the end of
         the room, where there's a staircase up.  If you go down the
         pit, you'll be in a room of infinite weak creatures that will
         eventually kill you.  If you go up the stairs, you'll find a
         room with four ...  well, you'll find out.  You need to use
         the mummies that appear, so don't kill them.  If you need a
         hint, save and consult the oracle.

       
  	Ripped OFF 12-21-90 
                  
		   by The Fallout Shelter
			 203.327.4884
	              9600 and up only !!

