These docs typed by ROBOTIC/WOW





                              DIPLOMACY III 
                                   BY
                             POWER SOFTWARE 

                     Copyright (c) 1976 Avalon Hill
                     Copyright (c) 1992 Power Software
                         - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED -

HOW TO START

The game can be started from CLI or from Workbench in the standard 
fashion.  Type "diplomacy<return>" at the CLI prompt or double-click the 
workbench icon.  The only requirement is that the program expects the 
current directory to contain the "Data" directory with the three 
"default" files.  The program supports multitasking assuming sufficient 
memory is available.

The program will display the title screen as it reads in the data and 
sets up the game.  Click the left mouse button when prompted to reveal 
the diplomacy campaign map and start the game.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
THE GAME
------------------------------------------------------------------------

BACKGROUND

The game DIPLOMACY is a conquer-the-map type game which is published by 
Avalon Hill.  It is designed for seven players with variations for as 
few as two players.  This software is designed to enhance this game by 
keeping track of the various parameters, resolving the orders and 
controlling the flow.  This documentation describes the use of this 
software only.  Please refer to the rule book included in Avalon Hill's 
game for the complete set of game instructions.

The game of diplomacy is played in years consisting of three seasons: 
Spring, Fall and Winter.  The Spring and Fall turns are when the players 
issue orders for movement of their existing units (armies and fleets).  
In the Winter turn, supply center ownership is adjusted and units are 
built or disbanded accordingly.  The game starts in Spring of the year 
1901.

ISSUING ORDERS (Spring and Fall turns)

There are three possible orders for each unit on the board: hold, move 
or support.  In addition, fleets have a fourth option, "convoy" of an 
army from one coast to another.  In general, orders are issued by 
selecting the provinces involved.  This is done by moving the mouse 
pointer to the name of the province and clicking the left mouse button.  
Each order requires 3 provinces: 
   the province containing the unit being ordered, 
   the province containing the unit that is moving, 
   and the destination province.
Clicking on these three provinces is usually enough to fully describe 
the order.  

   HOLD: click three times on the province containing the unit.
         (remember to click on the NAME of the province)

   MOVE: click twice on the province containing the unit to move;
         click the province where the unit is going.  If the destination 
         province is multi-coast and the unit moving is a fleet, a 
         requester may appear asking which coast.

SUPPORT: click the province containing the unit providing the support;
         click the province containing the unit receiving the support;
         click the province where the supported unit is going/staying.
         if the supporting unit is a fleet in the water and the 
         supported unit is an army on the coast, then a requester may 
         ask you to select between "support" or "convoy"; select 
         "support".

 CONVOY: same as SUPPORT but select "convoy" at requester.  Note that a 
         convoy order is not valid unless the army being convoyed is 
         also ordered to move to the same province.

A text representation of the order will be constructed at the top of the 
screen as each order is input.  The entire list of orders can be viewed 
on-screen or printed out at any time during order entry by selecting the 
proper item on the STATUS menu (see menu commands below).  Any order 
which is incorrect can be changed by simply entering the correct order.  
Note that virtually all orders, even those which are obviously invalid, 
are accepted by the computer during order entry.  It is important to 
verify that the orders have been entered as intended prior to ending the 
order input phase.  Orders which are invalid will be flagged as such in 
the results of the order resolution and the order will be treated as a 
HOLD order.  

When all orders have been entered correctly, a click on the end gadget 
in the lower right corner will signal the computer to resolve the 
orders.  

ISSUING RETREAT ORDERS (Spring and Fall turns)

Some units may be dislodged as a result of order resolution.  If this is 
true, the computer will wait for retreat orders to be issued.  These are 
entered similar to regular orders but are simpler:  The default order is 
to disband a dislodged unit.  To command a unit to retreat, click the 
province from which the unit is being dislodged and then click the 
destination province.  To change the order back to a disband order, 
click twice on the unit's province.  The list of retreat orders can be 
displayed similar to regular orders using the menu.  Click the end 
gadget when all orders have been entered correctly.

ADJUSTING UNITS (Winter turn)

At the end of the Fall turn, the computer will automatically adjust 
supply ownership.  Then the numbers of supplies owned will be compared 
to the number of units deployed for each power.  If appropriate, the 
computer will wait for build/disband orders to be issued.  These are 
issued by simply clicking on the appropriate province and, if building 
on a coastal province, selecting the type of unit to be built.  A power 
will not be allowed to issue more builds/disbands than the supply count 
calls for.  The list of adjustment orders can be displayed similar to 
regular orders using the menu.  An order can be cancelled by clicking on 
the province again.  Click the end gadget when all orders have been 
entered correctly.

If insufficient units are selected for disbanding, additional units will 
be disbanded based on location as though the power were in civil 
disorder.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
THE FILES
------------------------------------------------------------------------

MAP FILES

"Default.map" is an IFF picture of the map background which is loaded 
when the program is started.  It is HIRES (640x200 pixel) resolution and 
has 8 colors.  It was drawn by Ken Edwards, a user/artist in Texas.  
"Lace1.map" is the same map converted to INTERLACE (640x400 pixel)
resolution.  "Lace2.map" is slightly larger.

You can use a paint program (e.g. Deluxe Paint) to modify these maps or 
to create your own.  The names of the provinces are part of the provdata 
file and should not be drawn on the picture.  The resolution you select, 
the size of the map, and the number of colors greatly affects the memory 
required to run Diplomacy.  The colors you choose will be all that's 
available for the color of each power.  Also, the first four colors in 
your palette will be used as follows:
   COLOR 0 - province names and background for the text display areas
   COLOR 1 - text in display areas
   COLOR 6 - assumes land is this color
   COLOR 7 - assumes water is this color

You can change the map that the program starts with by simply replacing 
the "default.map".

PROVDATA FILES

"Default.provdata" contains the locations and types (land or water) for 
all the provinces.  This data corresponds to the default (HIRES) map.  
"Lace.provdata" is for use with "lace.map".

You can modify province data using the ADJUST menu or "Prov Edit Mode" 
under the PREFS menu.  When you open a map the provdata is cleared and 
provdata corresponding to the new map must be opened or created.

GAME FILES

"Default.game" holds the starting configuration (Spring 1901) for a 
standard Diplomacy game with seven human players.  Since the names of 
the provinces in the "lace.provdata" file is the same as the default, 
this game file will work with either map resolution.

Game information changes as the game is played.  It can also be modified 
using the ADJUST menu.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
THE MENU
------------------------------------------------------------------------

PROJECT MENU
   These commands affect the entire game and can be used anytime.

         To Back - sends game screen behind workbench, etc to allow 
                   multitasking control

     Default Map - opens the "Data/default.map" IFF picture adjusting 
                   the screen resolution and colors to match.  This 
                   operation erases all province data and game 
                   information.

        Open Map - same as DEFAULT MAP but provides a requester so you 
                   can select which picture file to open.  Any IFF 
                   picture can be used as a background but keep in mind 
                   that the screen will take on the characteristics of 
                   the picture used and memory requirements could vary 
                   greatly.  

Default ProvData - opens the "Data/default.provdata" file.  This file 
                   must correspond to the map currently being used for 
                   the province gadgets to line up properly with the 
                   background.

   Open ProvData - same as DEFAULT PROVDATA but provides a requester so 
                   you can select which provdata file to open.

   Save ProvData - overwrites last saved provdata file with current 
                   province data.  This option is identical to "SAVE 
                   PROVDATA AS" if the data has not been previously 
                   saved.

Save ProvData As - saves current province data in file on disk for later 
                   retrieval using OPEN command.

        New Game - restarts game at Spring 1901 (or whatever 
                   configuration is specified in "Data/default.game" 
                   file).

       Open Game - loads previously saved game (requires entry of name 
                   of game file).

       Save Game - overwrites last saved game file with current 
                   configuration.  This option is identical to "SAVE 
                   GAME AS" if the game has been previously saved.

    Save Game As - saves current game configuration in file on disk for 
                   later retrieval using OPEN command.

            Quit - closes game screen and returns to workbench/CLI.

           About - shows revision number and credits.

STATUS MENU
   These commands provide data output to the desired device.

  Display Orders - shows list on screen of all units by power and their 
                   current order.  This option is useful to allow order 
                   entry to be double-checked prior to clicking "end" 
                   for results.

Display Supplies - shows list of powers and the supply centers each 
                   currently owns on screen.

    Print Orders - outputs list of orders to printer.

    Print Status - outputs current status info to printer; includes list 
                   of units for each power; this is handy to produce a
                   worksheet for writing orders during the diplomacy 
                   period.

     Save Orders - stores list of orders as text file on disk.

     Save Status - stores current status info as text file on disk.

PREFS MENU
   This menu allows selection of various display and output modes.  A 
   check is displayed in the menu next to each option selected.  Any 
   combination is acceptable including no output (no check marks).  

 Display Results - shows list on screen of units, their orders and the 
                   end result after each turn.  This option is selected 
                   by default.

   Print Results - outputs to printer.  This is useful in providing a 
                   hard copy of results for reference during game play.  

    Save Results - outputs to a history file on disk.  This will 
                   preserve a history of the game useful for analysis 
                   and other future reference.

     Make Sounds - makes a beep sound whenever an error message is 
                   displayed.  This is the only sound this game can 
                   produce.

  Auto Save Game - automatically saves game to a new disk file after 
                   each turn is completed.  Files are named using the 
                   root name specified in the requester and adding an 
                   extension indicating the date of the game turn.  This 
                   option is highly recommended in that it protects you 
                   against computer resets and lets you revert back to a 
                   previous turn at will.

    Show Borders - displays lines between the province name gadgets 
                   which show which provinces are bordering each other.  
                   The lines are color-coded to indicate which type of 
                   unit can traverse the border.  Black and brown lines 
                   are for armies only, black and aqua are for fleets, 
                   and brown and aqua means both armies and fleets can 
                   traverse.  (Note: colors depend on the palette of the 
                   map being used.  This option would typically be used 
                   only if creating or modifying the province data.  

  Prov Edit Mode - suspends game play and allows easy access to the map-
                   editing features.  Click in open space to add a 
                   province.  Click a province gadget to pick it up to 
                   move (delete it by clicking the end gadget while 
                   holding it).

ADJUST MENU
   These commands give the user raw power to adjust the game to any 
   configuration.  Although the game has been play-tested and is 
   believed tofollow the rules accurately in resolving orders, 
   gamemasters can choose to over-ride the decisions and adjust the map 
   to what they believe is correct.  This menu also includes the map 
   editing commands which can be used to modify the province data.

          Season - change season.

            Year - change year.

         Players - brings up a requester which allows player data to be 
                   modified.  This includes names of players, the 
                   power(s) each player controls and whether the player 
                   is to be controlled by the computer (AI) or not.  If 
                   computer control is selected, the computer will issue 
                   all orders for the powers controlled by that player.  
                   Any number of players can be computer-controlled and 
                   each player will act independently.  To place a power 
                   in civil disorder, simply leave it under human (i.e., 
                   not computer) control and don't issue any orders for 
                   it.  The default civil disorder rules will be 
                   followed in resolving orders.

          Powers - brings up a requester which allows power data to be 
                   modified.  This includes names of powers and color 
                   used to represent each power on the map.

            Unit - build/change/disband a unit.  Any unit in the 
                   province selected is replaced by the unit built.

  Current Supply - change/eliminate current ownership of a supply 
                   province.

     Home Supply - change/eliminate home ownership of a home supply 
                   province.

    Add Province - creates a new province name gadget on the map with 
                   the name you provide.  You are then prompted to 
                   establish borders with existing provinces.  Use the 
                   "end" gadget to indicatewhen all the borders have 
                   been selected.  If the province being added has more 
                   than one coast, use "Adjust Borders" to add the 
                   additional border information.

   Move Province - click on province gadget to pick it up and click 
                   again to drop in new location.  Drop the province 
                   gadget on the "end" gadget to delete it.

 Rename Province - select province and type new name in requester 
                   gadget.

Change Prov Type - change water to land and vice versa.  Also to modify 
                   supply centers.

  Adjust Borders - select province to modify, then select the bordering 
                   provinces for armies and for each of the four 
                   possible coasts.  Use Show Borders mode (Prefs Menu) 
                   so you can see what you're doing.

