                             SKID ROW

                             presents

                    Dragon's Lair II: Time Warp

Princess Daphne has been kidnapped by the Evil Wizard Mordroc and
whisked away to a wrinkle in time.  Mordroc will force Daphne into
marriage unless Dirk the Daring can rescue her.

You, as Dirk, must travel through time with the help of an aging time
machine.  During your quest you must face and conquer the unique
dangers of several dimensions in time.

Follow the Wizard to the dreaded dimension where you must confront and
defeat him before he places the ring of death on Daphne's finger and
she's lost forever in the Time Warp.

GAME INSTRUCTIONS

To Load Dragon's Lair II: Time Warp

For A-1000 owners, at the prompt you should insert KICKSTART 1.2 or
greater.  For all Amiga models, when prompted for the WORKBENCH disk,
you should insert the Dragon's Lair II: Time Warp Disk 1 into the
internal disk drive.

Starting The Game

After the game has loaded, the demo mode will automatically begin.  The
demo runs through scenes from the first disk and then returns to the
title screen and credits.  To start playing the game simply press the
(0) on the keypad at any time.  You will know the game has started
when the player score screen appears.  This screen shows your score
and the number of lives you have remaining.  The first scene will then
load automatically.

Playing Dragon's Lair II: Time Warp

You do not directly control all of Dirk's actions, rather you control
his reactions to the events that happen around him.  As you watch the
animation, you must decide in which direction Dirk should move on the
screen and when.

To finish a scene successfully you must make a move or press the fire
button (zero (0) on the numeric keypad) when Dirk is in danger.  Timing
is very critical and often you may make the correct move but at the
wrong time.  Also, many scenes require more than one move.  If you are
having trouble, watch the animation carefully and move Dirk in the
safest direction or if no direction is safe press the fire button
to use Dirk's laser gun or staff.

If you're sure you have the correct move, try varying the time when you
make the move, a little sooner or a little later.  Don't be surprised if
Dirk doesn't move immediately after you have made a move.  You must wait
for the animation to finish and if you made the correct move(s) you will
continue on to the next scene.

You have three lives and the game will end if you lose all of your lives
or when you have completed all of the scenes on the disks.

From time to time it will be necessary to change the disk in the drive.
After you have finished all the animations on a disk you will be asked to
insert the next disk do that the game can continue.  NEVER eject one
of the game disks while you are playing, unless you are prompted, or
you may damage the disk!

Controls

There are two ways of controlling Dirk, either by using the joystick 
(You should plug your joystick into Port 2) or else you can control
Dirk by using the numeric keypad on your keyboard.  The directions you
will need when using the numeric keypad are UP (8), DOWN (2), LEFT (4)
and RIGHT (6).  To use Dirk's laser gun or staff press the FIRE BUTTON
on the joystick or the '0' on the keypad.

Ending The Game

The game will come to an end after you have lost three lives.  To stop
playing the game simply reset your computer.  You can then safely remove
the disk in the drive.

Saving Your Position

To save your poistion press the 'S' key during a scene and after you
have successfully completed the scene you will be prompted for a 
Save disk.  Your position will be saved and you will be prompted again
for the current game disk.

Loading a Saved Game

To load a saved game press the 'L' key during a scene and you'll be 
prompted for your Save disk.  Remove the game disk from the internal
drive and replace it with the Save disk.  The last saved position
will be loaded and you will be prompted for the appropriate game
disk.

Pausing the Game

You can pause the game at any time by pressing the 'P' key on the
keyboard.  To continue to play, press the 'P' key again and the 
game will resume.

Turning the Audio Off/On

You can toggle the audio off and on by pressing the 'A' key on the
keyboard.

Playing Scene One

As the scene begins, we see Dirk sitting at the breakfast table
with his family.  A noise causes Dirk to look up in surprise to
see his mother-in-law enter the room and climb up onto the table
swinging a large rolling pin.  When Dirk's mother-in-law first starts
to swing the rolling pin, press left on the joystick or the '4'
key on the keypad and Dirk will leap to safety as the pin swings 
down to destroy the chair on which he was sitting.

DRAGON'S LAIR II: TIME WARP HINTS

NOTE: The scenes in Dragon's Lair II: Time Warp for all computer
formats may not appear in the order listed below and for some versions,
certain scenes may not appear at all.  If the scene number does not
match the scene, the scenes can be easily recognized by the 
individual descriptions listed below.

Scene 2 - Drawbridge

Followed by his screaming mother-in-law, Dirk finds himself on the
drawbridge of a familiar castle.  In the water below, several green
tentacles watch and wait as Dirk seems trapped.  Dirk must avoid the
tentacles, keep an eye open for his mother-in-law and flee into the
castle.

Scene 3 - Castle Entrance

Dirk has entered the castle just ahead of his mother-in-law, but the
castle is full of lingering monsters.  As the angry woman rushes through
the door, a snake appears, attempting to swallow Dirk alive.  Dirk
needs to hit the snake and continue to run.

Scene 4 - Descending into the Castle

Avoiding the snake, Dirk ducks into a shaft that leads down into the
castle's hidden depths, but the snake isn't through with him yet.
Dirk must escape from the snake by proceeding into the darkness.

Scene 5 - Mother-in-Law Riding Snake

Although Dirk thought he had left his mother-in-law somewhere up above,
he has been pursued into the shaft.  She swings down on the same snake
Dirk just missed, wielding the rolling pin.  Dirk's only escape is to
avoid the rolling pin by jumping from one side of the shaft to the
other and then riding the snake to uncertain safety.

Scene 6 - Jumps to Rock Pillar

Behind him Dirk hears his mother-in-law struggling inside the shaft
he has just emerged from.  Dirk must react quickly as the ledge he
stands on starts to crumble away.

Scene 7 - Rides the Rocks

The pillar Dirk landed on has broken and is sliding down a hill towards
an enormous hole.  There's no choice but to fall into the hole but Dirk
must avoid the pillar as it teeters on the edge of the chasm.

Scene 8 - Finds Time Machine

Falling through the hole above, Dirk appears in a treasure room on
top of a talking Time Machine.  Behind him a large, green serpent
rises out of the coins that fill the room.  Dirk must hit the snake's
head and avoid the coils trying to wrap themselves around him.

Scene 9 - Time Machine Lifted into the Air

The serpent has retreated into the treasure, but only for a moment.
As Dirk stumbles atop the Time Machine, the green snake strikes again,
first with its gaping jaws and then with its lashing tail.

Scene 10 - Jumps to Ribs

Balancing the Time Machine in the air, the serpent tries to shake
Dirk off.  The only escape seems to be towards the skeleton of
some long dead Dragon.

Scene 11 - Inside Rib Cage

Dirk moves forward to explore the interior of the rib cage.  From
above, the serpent lunges at Dirk's head.  Dirk must swipe at the
leering snake with his sword and then dodge a pack of skulls as 
they attack from up above.

Scene 12 - Slides Towards the Time Machine

Outside the rib cage again, Dirk slides towards the waiting Time
Machine, but the serpent is waiting also.  How can Dirk activate the
Time Machine without being eaten by the attacking serpent?  Dirk must
hit the snake again and search the machine for an 'ON' switch.

Scene 13 - Serpent Attacks Dirk on Time Machine

As Dirk listens to the Time Machine explaining what he must do to
activate it, the serpent wraps itself around Dirk's legs.  Struggling
with his sword, Dirk must swipe at the snake's coils and defend himself
against the serpents lunging atatcks.


Scene 14 - Activates Time Machine

Dirk slides into the pilot's seat of the Time Machine and prepares to
travel into the Time Warp when the relentless serpent attacks again.
Dirk must attempt to finally kill the serpent as his mother-in-law
appears one last time.

Scene 15 - Arrives in Prehistoric Time

Having activated the Time Machine, Dirk finds himself confronted
by flying dinosaurs.  The winged, green reptiles swoop down on him,
claws outstretched, mouths agape.  Dirk must kill the first one and
avoid the jaws of the second.

Scene 16 - Dirk Flies by Mordroc

The terradactyls have Dirk by the leg and carry him past their
master, the Evil Wizard Mordroc!  Mordroc howls and swings his staff
at the dangling Dirk, who, must avoid the swinging rod.

Scene 17 - Carried Away From Mordroc

The flying reptiles carry Dirk away from the Wizard and again try to
swallow the brave knight.  Dirk must kill the attacking terradactyl
before it can close its jaws around his legs.

Scene 18 - Dirk Gets Dropped

Hovering over a rocky ledge, Dirk sees the opportunity to escape.
As the terradactyl flaps its wings.  Dirk must free himself and
attempt to land on the ledge without injury.

Scene 19 - Centaurs Kidnap Daphne

Dirk regains his senses after having landed safely on the ledge to
see Princess Daphne who is being held captive by two large Centaurs.
The terradactyls haven't given up yet and they swoop down from the sky
above to attack the sprawling hero.  Dirk must kill the two large
reptiles as the centaurs fly off into the clouds with the princess.
To one side a pair of feathery wings sit that Dirk must use to follow
the fleeing kidnappers as he is again attacked, this time by smaller
terradactyls.  

Scene 20 - Dirk Finds the Centaurs

Having pursued the Centaurs into a cloud bank, Dirk crashes into the
two kidnappers forcing them to drop Daphne.  Dirk must swoop down
and grab the princess before she falls into the boiling lava below.

Scene 21 - Dirk and Daphne Land on the Time Machine

Having lost his wings, Dirk and Daphne land on the Time Machine.
Before he can activate the machine, Dirk loses his sword and it
begins to sink into the bubbling mud.  Dirk must retrieve the sword
in order to use the Time Machine.  As Dirk leaps into the mud one
of the centaurs lands next to the Time Machine, grabs the
struggling Daphne and carries her back to the waiting Mordroc.
Dirk can only swing fruitlessly at the fleeing centaur and then
return to the Time Machine to continue travelling through the
Time Warp.

Scene 22 - Arrives on Clouds

The Time Machine has brought Dirk to a strange colorful cloud bank.
A vine leads up into the multi-colored clouds and Dirk must climb
up this vine.

Scene 23 - Dirk is Attacked by Guardian Angel

Climbing up the vine, Dirk is confronted by a fat, little angel who
warns him to leave before causing trouble.  As Dirk continues 
undaunted, the blue angel swings his magic wand attempting to stop
Dirk before he can go any further.  Dirk must dodge the wand and
continue up the vine.

Scene 24 - At the Gates to Eden

Emerging from the clouds, Dirk finds himnself at the gates to a large
castle.  Above the gates hangs a sign that reads "EDEN".  The guardian
appears with several small, flying babies again telling Dirk to go
away.  Dirk must avoid the angel's magic wand and leap from the attacking
babies.

Scene 25 - Dirk Enters Eden

Attempting to escape from the babies has brought Dirk to the castle
wall.  The angel and babies attack once more, leaving Dirk no choice
but to proceed over the castle wall.

Scene 26 - Dirk Enters Eden

Poised on the edge of the wall, Dirk looks down into Eden.  The garden
stretches beyond the horizon, seeming much larger than Dirk had
originally believed.  The flying babies come zooming over the wall
along with the blue angel.  Dirk must leap from the wall onto two tree
branches that will lead him to relative safety.

Scene 27 - The Snakes of Eden

Having evaded the garden keepers, Dirk finds himself confronted by two
blue snakes - the evil serpents of Eden!  The snakes proceed to wrap
themselves around Dirk, carrying him into the air.  Dirk must swing
his sword several times in hopes of beating the serpents off of him.

Scene 28 - Swinging with the Snakes of Eden

Caught up in their coils, Dirk is thrown around by the two snakes.  Sword
in hand, Dirk is tossed back and forth from loop to loop, snake to snake.
Dirk must avoid the tightening coils while trying not to fall into the
chasm below.

Scene 29 - Riding the Snakes of Eden

Holding onto one of the snakes, Dirk is carried to the far end of the
tree standing tall above them.  One of the snakes won't be content until
Dirk is sitting deep in the pit of its stomach and continues to lunge 
at the knight while the other unwraps its coils.

Scene 30 - Dirk Gets Licked

The hungry snake uses its tongue to taste Dirk before attempting to take
a bite.  The other snake decides to let Dirk go so the brave knight can
continue his quest to rescue Princess Daphne.  Dirk must strike the
hungry snake as the other serpent releases him.

Scene 31 - Exits Eden on the Time Machine

Having found the time machine again, Dirk struggles in the pilot seat
as the pillar below him crumbles away.  Dirk must activate the machine
before the pillar falls.

Scene 32 - Finds Mordroc and Daphne

The Time Machine has transported Dirk to the exact location where
Mordroc plans to marry Daphne.  Dirk has arrived just in time to
interrupt the wedding as the evil Wizard begins to place the death
ring on Daphne's finger.

Scene 33 - Throws a Sword at Mordroc

The ledge Dirk is standing on begins to crumble beneath him as Mordroc
watches above.  Dirk must jump from th ledge and throw his sword at the
Wizard to try and stop him from placing the death ring all of the way
onto the Pricess's  finger.

Scene 34 - Sword Flies into Mordroc's Wrist

Dirk's aim is true.  Mordroc howls in pain as the sword impales
itself into the Wizard's arm.

Scene 35 - Dirk vs. Mordroc

Mordroc pulls the sword out of his arm as Dirk jumps from the ledge 
towards the death ring that has fallen to the ground.  Mordroc swings
the sword at Dirk's head as the knight reaches for the ring.  Dirk
must jump, first from the ledge and then away from the attacking
Mordroc.

Scene 36 - Dirk Leaps to the Death Ring

Dirk has escaped Mordroc for the time being and lands near the death
ring.  The ring is sitting on a rocky outcrop that begins to crumble
away as Dirk steps forward.  Dirk must leap off of the crumbling rocks
before grabbing the ring with the aid of his belt.

Scene 37 - Dirk Throws Ring at Mordroc

Hanging from a rocky pillar, Dirk must first avoid and energy bolt
the Wizard fires and then throw the death ring as the pillar crumbles
away under Dirk's weight.

Scene 38 - The Death Ring Lands on Mordroc's Finger

The death ring flies through the air and slides onto the evil Wizard's
outstretched finger.

Scene 39 - Mordroc Mutates

The power of the death ring causes Mordroc to bloat grotesquely,
mutating into a large, pink balloon covered in white warts.  As the
Wizard grows, Dirk must jump to retrieve his lost sword and flee the
changing Mordroc.

Scene 40 - Destroys the Gas Bag

Dirk stands by the unconscious Princess Daphne as the Wizard's mutated
body appears trying to attack Dirk once more.  Dirk must leap from
the rocks and swing at the hulking, pink form.

Scene 41 - Leaps to Daphne

The Wizard lies dead at Dirks's feet, exploded into a million pieces,
but the explosion has caused the entire cavern to shake and begin to
fall.  Huge sections of rock fall from the ceiling as several of the
small terradactyls swoop down to avenge their master's death.  Dirk
must jump to avoid the falling rocks and swing at the hulking, pink
form.

Scene 42 - Dirk Tries to Awaken the Sleeping Daphne

Dirk crouches over the slumbering Princess and kisses her once while
above them, two of the little, green reptiles swoop down for a bite.
Dirk must swing his sword to kill both reptiles.

Scene 43 - Depressed Dirk

The kiss seems to have had no effect at all and Dirk hangs his head
in sorrow.  Daphne isn't moving and another little reptile flies down
to attack Dirk.  Dirk must kill the reptile before it can take the pack
off of his back.

Scene 44 - Daphne Opens her Eyes

Behind Dirk's back Princess Daphne blinks her eyes and begins to
awaken from her deep sleep.

Scene 45 - Daphne Wakes Up

Dirk combats yet another little terradactyl as Princess Daphne awakens
and stretches her aching arms.  Dirk must kill this last flying reptile
before he can turn to his lost love.

Scene 46 - Final Kiss

Princess Daphne falls into Dirk's arms and the two embrace in a long
passionate kiss.  Dirk has rescued his one true love and maybe now
they will be able to live happily ever after...


                                  SKID ROW































          

          
         D R A G O N'S  L A I R  II: T I M E  W A R P  S O L V E ! !

             Solved by: The Mighty Thor! (Angel Eyes's brother) 
             Typed by: Angel Eyes

   Note: I've listed each scene and given a brief description to each move
         so it will make more sense as you play each scene.

  
   Scene 1: Breakfast Table

     Move LEFT just before mother-in-law hits Dirk with Rolling Pin.

   Scene 2: Drawbridge

     Move DOWN then RIGHT to avoid tentacles and mother-in-law. These two
     moves must be executed quickly together!

   Scene 3: Castle Entrance

     FIRE to hit snake then move RIGHT to go into shaft.

   Scene 4: Descending into the Castle

     Go DOWN (quickly) to climb down step. Move LEFT to avoid snake.

   Scene 5: Mother-in-Law Riding Snake
 
     Move LEFT to avoid Rolling Pin then go UP to climb out! These two moves
     are executed quickly together!

   Scene 6: Jumps to Rock Pillar

     Move UP to escape crumbling pillar.

   Scene 7: Rides the Rocks

     Move DOWN then wait til rock starts to tilt then DOWN again.

   Scene 8: Finds Time Machine

     FIRE to hit serpent then move UP. Pause for a sec then FIRE to hit serpent
     again.

   Scene 9: Time Machine Lifted into the Air

     Move UP to get back on Time Machine.

   Scene 10: Jumps to Ribs

     Move RIGHT to enter Rib Cage.

   Scene 11: Inside Rib Cage

     Move LEFT to avoid serpent, then FIRE to hit serpent, and LEFT again to
     avoid pack of skulls.

   Scene 12: Slides Towards Time Machine

     Move DOWN to go to the Time Machine. FIRE to hit serpent.

   Scene 13: Serpent Attacks Dirk on Time Machine
  
     FIRE to hit serpent. Move LEFT to hang on to Time Machine. Wait til serpent
     grabs Dirk's legs then LEFT again to be in attack position and finally FIRE
     to hit serpent.

   Scene 14: Activates Time Machine

     FIRE to hit serpent. Move RIGHT to insert sword into Time Machine, and
     FIRE again to activate Time Machine.

   Scene 15: Arrives in Prehistoric Time

     Move Up to dodge flying dinosaurs. FIRE to kill flying dinosaur then
     FIRE again to kill the next one.

   Scene 16: Dirk Flies by Mordroc

     Move UP to avoid Mordroc.

   Scene 17: Carried Away From Mordroc
  
     FIRE to kill flying dinosaur then UP (quickly) to avoid him.

   Scene 18: Dirk Gets Dropped

     RIGHT to drop onto ledge.
  
   Scene 19: Centaurs kidnap Daphne

     DOWN to avoid flying dinosaur then FIRE to kill him. (screen pause)
     Move DOWN quickly right after pause to dodge then FIRE to kill the
     second flying dinosaur. (screen pause) LEFT quickly to get wings then
     RIGHT to put wings on and UP quickly to fly off ledge.

   Scene 20: Dirk Finds Centaurs

     Move DOWN to go after Daphne (wait til you see her fall)  
 
   Scene 21: Dirk and Daphne Land on the Time Machine

     Move DOWN to drop into mud, then RIGHT to grab sword, then UP to get
     on Time Machine.

   Scene 22: Arrives on Clouds

     Dirk will climb up vine by himself.

   Scene 23: Dirk is Attacked by Guardian Angel

     Move DOWN to avoid the Angel's wand, then UP to climb vine.

   Scene 24: At the Gates to Eden

     Move DOWN to dodge Angel's wand, then LEFT jump onto edge of castle.

   Scene 25: Dirk Enters Eden

     Move Up to dodge Angel's wand, then UP to jump over castle wall.

   Scene 26: Dirk Enters Eden
 
     Move LEFT to climb across vine, then DOWN to drop off of vine, then UP
     to jump, then RIGHT to exit castle.

   Scene 27: The Snakes of Eden

     FIRE to swing at snake, then wait til Dirk gets wrapped in snakes coils
     the hit FIRE again, wait a second and hit FIRE once more.

   Scene 28: Swinging with the Snakes of Eden

     Move RIGHT to avoid being eaten by snake, then go UP and when Dirk
     stradles snake move UP again.

   Scene 29: Riding the Snakes of Eden

     Move DOWN to invert Dirk, then RIGHT to avoid being eaten.

   Scene 30: Dirk Gets Licked

     FIRE to hit snake on head.

   Scene 31: Exits Eden on Time Machine

     Hit FIRE to activate Time Machine.

   Scene 32: Finds Mordroc and Daphne

     Mordroc puts ring on Daphne's Finger (get ready to move fast!)

   Scene 33: Throws a sword at Mordroc

     Move UP to get off of falling platform then hit FIRE really fast to
     throw sword.

   Scene 34: Sword flies into Mordroc's Wrist

     Sword hits Mordroc's Wrist (no moves)

   Scene 35: Dirk vs. Mordroc

     Move Up to jump forward, then LEFT to jump onto platform, then (while
     in the air) hit DOWN to land, then move RIGHT to exit scene.

   Scene 36: Dirk leaps to Death Ring

     Move UP to jump onto platform, then RIGHT to avoid the crumbling platform,
     then hit FIRE to get ring, then go LEFT to exit scene.

   Scene 37: Dirk Throws Ring at Mordroc

     Move UP to avoid energy bolt, then hit FIRE to throw ring at Mordroc.

   Scene 38: The Death Ring Lands on Mordroc's Finger

     Mordroc dies...(no moves)

   Scene 39: Mordroc Mutates

     Move LEFT to get off crumbling tower.

   Scene 40: Destroys the Gas Bag

     Hit FIRE to destroy Gas Bag, then move UP to avoid explosion.

   Scene 41: Leaps to Daphne

     Move DOWN to avoid falling rocks, then LEFT to walk towards Daphne,
     then UP to jump.

   Scene 42: Dirk Tries to Awaken the Sleeping Daphne

     Move DOWN for the kiss, then FIRE to hit little flying reptiles.

   Scene 43: Depressed Dirk

     FIRE to kill another little flying reptile.

   Scene 44: Daphne Opens Her Eyes

     Daphne awakens...(no moves)

   Scene 45: Daphne Wakes Up

     Hit FIRE again to kill another flying reptile.

   Scene 46: Final Kiss

     And finally hit FIRE once more to kill the last flying reptile.
   
                     CONGRATULATIONS! YOU WON!!!
    
