                Typed up by Shadow Knight (3/7/1991)
           FIXED BY [RYGAR] Docs are for the IBM version!

Getting Started Quickly: To befin playing right away, load the included Save
Game in Progress at the first menu. Use this party and the Hints section of
this car to explore the game interface.

Spell Boxes: A Yellow Spell Box represents a spell that mainly
defends against physical attacks and a Red Spell Box represents a spell that
mainly defends again magical attacks. 
Playing With Mouse: To give commands, place the mouse pointer over the
appropriate item or selection and press a mouse button.
A key to playing Eye of the Beholder is understanding the difference
between Take, Use, and Select. See the Actions section of the rules for
how to preform most of the actions in the game.
        Taking involoves picking up or dropping items. To Take an item
with the mouse, place the pointer over the item and press the
left mouse button.
         Using involoves attacking with weapons, opening a spell book,
or drinking a potion. To Use an item, plave the pointer over an in-hand
item (next to your character's portrait) and press the right mouse
button. You can only Use itmes from the main Adventure Screen (see the
Rule Book).
        Selecting involoves choosing buttons such as Movement Buttons,
spell Level Buttons, Camp Buttons, or choosing from lists of spells to
cast or memorize. To Select an item with the mouse, place the pointer
over the itme and press either the left or the right mouse button.

Take: Left Mouse Button                 Use: Right Mouse Button
Pick up item from character             Attack with a weapon
Drop item onto character                Bring up spells to cast
                                        Use an Item (Potion/Scroll)

                        Select: Either Mouse Button
                        Select a button
                        Select a spell to cast
                        Manipulate dungeon feature
                        Drop an item in the 3D view
                        Throw an item in the 3D view
                        Move in a dungeon

Playing with the Kepboard: To give the command, highlight the
appropriate item or location and press the command key.
In character generation, use the cursor keys to move the highlight to the
desired option and press the ENTER key to select it.
When playing from the keyboard, one item in a character's hand or
inventory is surrounded by an item highlight box. Use the W, A, Z, and S
keys like a cursor key pad to move the highlight from item to item.

     W          Move item highlight up
   A / S        Move item highlight left/right
     Z          Move item highlight down

As a short cut to access the items of the various characters in your
part, press the function key that corresponds to the charater's position
on the main Adventure Screen. To swap the position of two characters,
hold down the SHIFT key and pres the function key that corresponds to
the first character's position then hold down the SHIFT key and press
the funtion key that corresponds to the secon character's position.

        F1      F2
        F3      F4
        F5      F6

A key to playing Eye of the Beholder is understanding the difference
between Take, Use, and Select. See the ACtions section of the rules for
how to perform most of the actions in the game.
        Taking involves picking up or dropping items. The Get, Drop,
Throw, and Manipulate keys (G, D, T, & M) mimic the functions of the
Take command of the mouse. To take an item using the keyboard, place the
highlight over the item or the location you want the item to be and
press the command key.
        Using involves attacking with weapons, opening a spell book, or
drinking a potion. THe Use key (U) mimics the function of the Use
command of the mouse. To Use an item from the keyboard, place the
highlight over an in-hand item (next to your character's portrait) and
press the 'U' key. You can only Use items from the main Adventure
Screen.
        Selecting involves vhoosing buttons such as movement buttons,
spell Level Buttons, Camp Buttons, or choosing from lists of spells to
cast or memorize. All selections are done with dedicated keys.
To cast spells using the keyboard, Use a character's in hard spell book
icon or holy symbol. Choost the level of the spell to cast by press 1-5
keys above the main typing area of your keyboard. Choost the spell by
pressing '<' and '>' keys to highlight the spell with the spell cursor.
Press SPACE to cast the highlighted spell. Highlight ABORT SPELL and
press SPACE to close the spell menu.
Press the I key to view a character's item Inventory on the equipment
screen. Press the P key to switch pages between the character's
equipment screen and character screen.
Press the C key to bring up the Camp Menu. In Camp, use the cursor keys
to move the highlight to the desired option and press the ENTER key to
select it.
Move your party from the keyboard by pressing the keys on the keypad
that correspond to the layout of the movement buttons. You may move with
the keypad, even when you are playing the game with the mouse.

                7 Turn Left     8 Move Forward      9 Turn Right
                4 Move Left     5 Move Backwards    6 Move Right
                                2 Move Backwards

Notes: Some parts of the IBM version are slightly different than listed
in the rule book.
Copy protection does not occer at the beginning of the game.
When a character is paralyzed of effected by poisin his name will be
highlighted. When a character is paralyzed the items in both of his
hands will be greyed out. An indicator at the botton of the equipment
Screen will list if a character is paralyzed, poisoned but under the
effects of a slow poison spell, unconcious, or dead.
When you have a weapon in your primary hand, you can only use a seconday
or small weapon, like a dagger dart, or short sword, in the secondary
hand. All other weapons cannot be used and will be greyed out. When you
have a two handed weapon in your primary hand, all items in your
seconday hand connot be use and will be greyed out.
When a character is near death, his hit point bar will change color.
When he is unconcious, but not dead, it will change color again. When a
character is dead, the hit point bar will be empty.
If you answer Yes to the question "Will you rest until healed?", your
part will rest until it heals naturally. While healing naturally, your
party will have all of their spells memorized if they are interrupted by
monsters, but they will use up food quickly.
Unmemorized spells are not highlighted in the camp spell menu. There is
no backgroup music to turn off.
Bows will take arrows from either the secondary hand or the quiver.
Slings will take stones from the seconday hand, the belt pich, or the
backpack. Bows and Slings are two-handed weapons, and so any ammo or
other items in the secondary hand will be greyed out.
A cleric must have his holy symbol in-hand to attempt to turn undead.
You can Use the Commission to read it.
Races do not receive special combat bonuses with specific weapons. A
high Charisma has no effect when talking to NPCs.
Burning Hands effects all monsters next to the party, Invisibilty and
Invisibility 10' radius are not lost when a character is hit.
Invisibility 10' radius is lost on a character by character basis. A
Flame Blade may appear in either hand. There are no Stinking Cloud,
Cloudkill, or Protection from Lightning spells in the game.

Hints: Make sure that your party contains at least two characters who
can fight well, one who can cast mage spells, and one who can cast
clerical spells. Create the fighters first and then the spell casters.
After you have created all of your characters, Select Play to begin the
game. Once in the game, find your location at the the Main Entrance of
Level 1 on the Sewer Systems Map.
Experiment with manipulating objects. Place the mouse pointer over one
of the rocks at your feet and press the left mouse button to Take it.
Move the mouse pointer over the movement button and press a mouse button
to turn to the right. Place the rock shaped mouse pointer over the
ground and press a mouse button to drop the rock. Take the rock again,
place it high in the 3D view and press a mouse button to throw the rock.
Move forward to see how far it flew.
Move around and pick up the rocks and any other items you find. Select a
portait to access the Equipment Screen. Place items into the backpack.
Select the portrait again to return to Adventure Screen. Before you go
too far, enter camp, have your spell casters memorize and pray for
spells, and then rest to gain the spells.
Anytime you see an interesting item on the wall, place the mouse pointer
over the item and press a mouse button. Read the description in the
Message Area at the bottom of the screen. Watch out for items that you
can manipulate, like levers that move and button that depress.
When a monster approaches, make sure that your fighters in the front
rank have weapons in their primary hand. To attack, place the mouse
pointer over each weapon and press the Right Mouse Button. Once you get
comfortable fighting with the front rank characters, you can also have
the rear rank characters throw weapons and spells at the monsters.
Experiment by equipping your characters with various combinations of
weapons, shields, spell books, and holy symbols to maximize their
fighting ability.

Once you master manipulating objects, moving, and fighting, you are
ready to tackle the quest in Eye of the Beholder. Good Luck!

Keyboard Command List
   W            Move item highlight up
 A / S          Move item highlight left/right
   Z            Move item highlight down
 F1-F6          Select character shortcut
SHIFT F1-F6     Swap character positions
   G            Get an item from the floor in the 3D view
   D            Drop an item to the floor in the 3D view
   M            Manipulate an object in the 3D view (push a button, pull
                a lever, etc. Also acts as a 'Get' for items that are in
                the 3D view but are not on the ground.)
   U            Use an in-hand item from the main Adventure Screen
                (attack, bring up spells, drink a potion, etc.)
  1-5           Choose Spell Level on Spell Menu
  </>           Move Spell Cursor down/up
 SPACE          Cast Spell
   I            Inventory the character's Equipment Screen
   P            Page between inventory screen and stats screen
   C            Camp

        7 Turn Left     8 Move Forward     9 Turn Right
        4 Move Left     5 Move Backwards   6 Move Right
                        2 Move Backwards



--- [FIXED BY [RYGAR] ---



