                      FASCINATION PARTIAL WALK-THROUGH
                     -================================-

                      WRITTEN BY: LYLESBURG - DEC.8/92

 I found this game to be pretty enjoyable for the most part, but am sad to
inform you that I have not completed it as of yet. I can walk you through as
far as I've gotten, and perhaps someone can help me (I am currently stuck).
 Before I begin, a word about the game controls. The function key "F1" is
used to Save/Load/Quit. I know of no other keys that do anything. You play
with the mouse. Pointing over areas/objects discribes them 'somewhat'. The
left button is used to either select an area or an object to action. The
right button is used to bring up your inventory. You put things in inventory
by selecting with the left button and then pressing the left button. Do the
same to select an item from your inventory. You'll get the idea soon enough.

 THE START:
-==========- You play the part of Doralice, a female captain/pilot. You've
just landed in Miami, but not before a man named "Mr. Nichols" died right in
your arms. He left you with a briefcase containing a "Vile". This vile is of
some importance and this is where your adventure begins (your hotel room).
 Feel free to explore the room to get the hang of how everything works. This
will give you an idea of how the game is played throughout. Every so often,
we will save the game at some point. This is in case of any dreaded 'gurus',
or in case you have not followed along and have forgotten something 8-).

 STEP-1
-======- Try to leave to the lobby 3 times. A message will finally appear
telling you the access code to the briefcase. The code is "AARGH". Inside,
you'll find pyjamas and an electric toothbrush. Click on toothbrush and then
select voltage to "110V". Point to where the drawer is and you'll find the
adaptor that fits the toothbrush plug. Insert the adaptor into the socket on
the wall, then select the toothbrush plug and connect it to the adaptor. You
will now discover the hidden vile. Unplug the toothbrush and put the adaptor
back in the drawer. Plug in the fridge and open it's door. Now point towards
the water jug sitting on the coffee table. Select it, and use it against the
empty ice-tray. Place the vile inside this tray for safe keeping. There is a
directory under the drawer. Write down any info you get from it, as it might
be important later on. There is nothing left to do here, so save the game
here and name it as "STEP-1".

 STEP-2
-======- Exit to lobby and take the token in the ashtray. A keyring can be
found on a table with flowers. Take that as well. Click on the newspaper and
find a page with a torn corner. It reveals the first part of a number. Write
this down. Select the directory and write down the info from that. Show the
keyring to the receptionist named Isalinda. She will provide the missing key
for it. Go back to your room and call the private number you founf from the
directory "888-1111". The person will give you an entry code "A4621" to get
in the building. Wite this down. As you try to exit to the lobby, you'll get
a call from Robaire di la Cafetiere. You chat a bit with him and arrange to
meet him at the pool. Save the game the first chance you get, name "STEP-2".

 STEP-3
-======- At the pool, click on Sharon the bartender. Choose coffee instead
of the drink. Select coffee and some can sugar will appear. Place a cube in
your coffeee and keep another cube in your inventory. Point to the spoon and
stir coffee. Select it to drink. Click on Prisca and she will begin to tell
you about a man who asked her questions about Mr. Nichols death. Pay close
attention to what she says. She will give you a flashlight. Click on the hat
sitting on the pole. Place it on Prisca's head. Click the switch on the pole
and it will reveal the lost pendant in the pool. Take it and show it to her.
Go to the booth and open the locker door with your key. You'll find a broken
walkman in there. Click on it and use the token to open the compartment that
has a battery. Take it for the flashlight. Go back to pool area. Now save
the game here and name it "STEP-3". Then exit to Q.U.L.

 STEP-4
-======- Go to Q.U.L. Reception and point to key on wall. A vicious dog will
suddenly appear (scared the hell outta me 8-). Use the sugar cube and give
it to the dog. Take the storeroom key. If you must try the call button, do
so only twice. Bugging this guy a third time will piss him off. Exit to the
street and go to telephone. Put token in slot and dial "888-1111". Mr Miller
will provide idle chat and give you an access code "879". Write this down.
Exit to parking lot and use storeroom key to open the storage locker. It is
dark in there, so use the flashlight. Look to right side of locker and click
on the hook. This will expose a coat with a pocket you should click on. Take
the car keys and exit to parking lot again. Use keys in lock of car next to
the bum. You'll find it fits, but the door is jammed. Click on bum and he'll
tell you to kick the tire, as that will un-jam the door. Take the keycard on
the car seat. There is nothing else of interest, so exit the car and save
the game. Name it "STEP-4".

 STEP-5
-======- Click on entry code panel next to bum and use the keycard in slot.
Enter the code "879" that was given to you. The elevator now opens and you
will be taken to Mr. Miller's office directly. You find that he is murdered
and you search the room. Click on his lapel and a silk handkerchief will now
appear exposing a cassette. Take this item. Now click on a spring found on
one the books. This opens a secret panel. Click on the cable and you'll find
a dictaphone. Put cassette in unit and click the right tit on the lamp. The
light will go on powering the dictaphone. Mr. Miller left you a message to
say that there are actually 3 viles in existance. You have one, and his son
Kenneth has the second. He says that Peter Millgate (aka DOC) has stolen the
third vile. The 'DOC' has a secret Coconut Grove Labratory hidden underneath
a Lingerie store. Your mission (should you decide to accept it 8-), is to go
and retrieve the third vile without being detected. Then give both viles to
his son Kenneth. Exit to Lingerie store and save game. Name it "STEP-5".

 STEP-6
-======- Click on newspaper and write down the info. Go to far left booth
and read the paper on the floor. Exit to booth. Go to next booth (right),
and click on the box in bottom left. Take the shoe and keep it. Exit the
booth. Go to next booth (right) and you'll come across a private door. Click
on the door and you will be in the dark. Click on door once and notice above
the door, a bell. Click on bell with pointer and it won't ring when entered.
Click on far bottom left package and you'll find a safe. You'll find the key
hidden under the male poster on the wall to right. Above the safe, you will
see a label. Take it as well. Now use key and unlock safe. Use the shoe to
get the bar off. Now use the label to open safe. There is a combination lock
in there. Click dial once and enter "D". Click dial again and enter "O". Now
click on dial again and enter "C". This spells "DOC" by the way 8-). You are
now in DOC's secret labratory. Click on instruments and take scalpel. Click
on the answering machine and rewind the tape first. Click play button. After
you get the message, rewind the tape again and use the erase button to cover
your tracks. Click on surgeon's coat and then click on the pocket. You get a
mask. Take this. Click pocket again and you get a key. Use the key to unlock
the closet. Click on documents and you'll get a photo. Click on jar, and use
the shoe to break it open. You'll notice there are two viles. Take these and
save the game naming it "STEP-6". Exit to street and your back to lobby.

 STEP-7
-======- Isalinda informs that you have a message waiting. You find its from
Robaire. Before going to your room, click on the newspaper and write down
the info. Click on directory and write down info. Now go to your room. You
find your room has been searched and ransacked! Robaire is lying on the bed
out cold. Click on a pin found next to coffee table. It reads Red Blue Club.
Click on chocolates, but don't eat any. Keep them instead. They have drugs
inside them, which is why Robaire was knocked out cold. Click on glass on
the coffee table. You discover that Robaire actually drank the contents of
the vile when it cracked inside the glass he drank from. Click on phone and
call reception using number "0". Isalinda informs that an inspector is here
in the lobby wanting to see you. Exit to lobby and meet inspector Pedro di
Helgos. Click on the cat first, then click on cats ID tag. You find his name
is "FA". The other two cats are named "MI", a white cat, and "SOL", a black
cat. Write this info down, as it will be extremely important later on. The
cats were named after music notes (do re MI FA SOL la te do...get it?). Now
click on the inspector again. He will ask you a few questions in which you
better have the right answers (or else!). Not to worry though...answer the
questions in the following manner..."2-2-2-1-2-1" and you'll be safe. AFter
the inspector leaves, you'll notice a scrap of paper on the floor. Write the
number down "2121". This is the missing number to the torn out corner "674".
Talk to Isalinda again. She tells you that Robaire left the hotel. Go back
to your room and call the number "674-2121". You'll talk to Lou Dale, and
setup a meeting. Save game and name it "STEP-7". Now exit to Photo Shop.

 STEP-8
-======- Outside, you'll see a car. Click on it and you'll find a lapel pin
like the one you already have. Click on the $10 bill on the windshield and
take it. Do not click on studio door! Instead, click on service enterance.
Click on waste bin and click on newspaper. It informs that there is a rapist
loose, and he looks alot like Robaire (cheap drugs or what?). Use the photo
under door, as you'll need to catch a key. Use the scalpel to poke key out
of lock. Take back photo and you now find yourself in a kitchen. Click on
bottom cabinet (3rd from left) and click on the basin. It will move to the
counter top. Click on bottom cabinet (2nd from left) and click on cloth. Now
turn on water faucet and wet the cloth. Hang it on hook found to far right.
Click on Lye and use it on basin. Click on top cabinet (3rd from left), and
click on Ammonia. Use it on the basin. Take your mask from inventory. Click
on top cabinet (far left), and click on glass. It will fall to the floor and
make a sound alerting the owners. Quickly click on last chemical and use it
on the basin. Open service hatch on far right (above hook) making sure that
you click twice to open it all the way. Now click on basin and it will move
to other side of service hatch. Click on wet cloth and use it on service
slot. If all goes according to plan, you will gain entrance inside. If not,
try the same steps again. This was a tough puzzle to figure out exactly. You
now find a man knocked out cold by the fumes you created. You find Lou Dale
tied up and begin talking to her. She ends up giving you a signet-ring and
directs you to the Salsa Joint in a red light district. This is where you'll
find the Red and Blue Club. Save game here and name it "STEP-8".

 STEP-9
-======- You run into a doorman named Eduado who refuses you entrance. Use
the lapel pin on him. He still refuses. Now give him the $10 bill and he'll
let you enter (money always talks eh 8-). You are now faced by someone who
'claims' to be (or you assume to be) Kenneth. He will ask you some questions
which you must answer correctly. Answer questions in the following manner...
"2-2-1-2-1" and you'll be safe. You are taken to Coconut Grove and he starts
to chat you up. To avoid having sex and risking detection of viles, use the
chocolate on him. He will eat one and be knocked out cold. Clicking on his
tatoo, you discover his real name is Archie. Click on his pendant and write
down the info. Click on his hand and then click the ring on his finger. Take
his signet-ring which is some kind of stamp. Exit to lounge and then exit
back to room again. Archie will mumble something about a secret 'passage'.
Exit again to lounge. Click on landing-net on floor by the chair. Keep it,
and click switch on aquarium. This exposes a shell-fish inside. Click on the
shell-fish once, then click on the plankton next to it. Use plankton on it
and it will reveal a pearl. Use landing-net to grab pearl. Keep it. Next,
click on the statue of the pirate's eye patch. The patch will disappear and
you can place the pearl in the eye socket. Click on parrot and it will get a
cigar from the canister beneath it. Take the cigar and place it into the
pirate's mouth. A beam of light will shoot across to another object. Click
on the oriface and it will reveal a skull. You may as well take the pearl 
and cigar back in your possesion. They might become useful (not sure?). Now
use the stamp on the skull from the oriface. This will reveal the 'passage'
to a secret stairway. As you entered, you must have been knocked out. You
are confronted once again by the inspector who will ask you some questions
again. Answer the questions in the following manner..."1-2-1-2-1" and you'll
be safe. Save the game here and name it "STEP-9".

 STEP-10
-=======- You chat with inspector and ask if you can freshen up first. He
says alright, and you now end up in a bathroom. Click on waste bin twice and
you'll find a syringe. Take it. Open the right side of mirror and take the
shaving cream. Click on jar that has a set of eye-balls. Click on the lid
and use the syringe on the formalin. Click on the mechanism button found to
the left of the towel. It reveals a hidden closet. Click on the spray bottle
and use the syringe on it. It can now be used as a weapon. Go back to the
lounge and use the spray on the inspector. He will be knocked out cold. I'll
ask you to save the game here using the name "STEP-10", even though it is
alittle too soon. The reason for this is because I haven't gone beyond the
next stage, so there could be things I'm doing wrong (in the next stage). I
will continue telling you where I currently am though. Yes..I'm STUCK 8-(.

 STEP-10.5
-=========- You have now exited the lounge and find yourself in a room where
I am now. If you use your lamp on the microscope, it will reveal the small
inscription you couldn't read before (back at the pool). It shows the name
"B A D (a + sign above) G E". If you use your signet-ring on microscope, it
reveals a birthdate of "09/07/71". There are 3 cats which show the letters
"G (white cat), E (black cat), and F (not sure of colour of cat?)". "GEF" is
what I see. Click on the newspaper also and write down info. There are a few
pictures on the walls, and wrote down all the names. I also took the capital
letters into account to see if they mean anything (duh?). Anyway, a piture
named "Nudity's Dream" will reveal a button. Click on this and it will again
reveal a panel opening up above the organ. Clicking on the wheel will bring
up a Zodiac that has a hand like a watch. The botton left button (signs)
will move the hand counter-clock-wise. The button on bottom right will turn
the organ on (it wouldn't play before all this). If you click on the organ,
it will now allow you to play the keys. Now comes the part where I'm Stuck!

 I'm neither a musician, nor am I into Greek Zodiac signs. I have a feeling
that the Zodiac wheel should be set to the DOC's birthdate and sign. I also
feel that the 3 cat's names are important, as they represent the scale notes
of "MI, SOL, and FA" and also the way they are coloured (duh?). The name on
the lamp might also have something to do with playing these keys a certain
way. I can't help but think the letters "B A D (and + sign) G E" also have
something to do with the sequence of key playing (duh?). I really need some
help getting by this one peticular puzzle, as I feel frustrated now. Could
someone PLEASE try and figure this one out and let me know A.S.A.P. I feel
I am close to finishing the game once I get by this puzzle, and will again
document the rest of this walk-through so everyone can use it (if needed).
Thanks for not shouting at me if you are also stuck at this point 8-). I
DID manage to get you THIS FAR didn't I ???

 You can contact me at the following bbs if you solved this organ puzzle. I
also know that this game came out for the IBM not long ago. I hear through
the grapevine that no-one has gotten past this point (yet?). Ask around the
IBM world of pirates if they can offer any help. Thanks a million guys!!!

 The number to reach me is MIDIAN 1 (416) 255-3134.
 Leave comment to me;
                     -= Lylesburg =-


