 
					HARDBALL! 
				           by 
				        Accolade 
 
Batter Up! 
Welcome to the most realistic baseball game ever designed. Step up to the 
plate and try to knock that ball out of the park.  You can choose to bunt, 
steal a base, and control base running. When your team is in the field, you
can control the type and location of pitch as well as the fielders. 
 
To Start the Game: 
 
1.	Turn on your monitor and Amiga. 
2.	Kickstart your Amiga with Kickstart Version 1.2 (if applicable). 
3.	Insert the "Hardball!" disk into the disk drive with the label side 
        up. 
4.	Hardball! will load automatically. When HardBall! has completely 
        loaded press the button/space bar to start a game. 
 
To Restart Game: 
 
	To restart the game, press the control key in combination with the 
        "R" key. 
 
Controls: 
 
	Once the game is loaded, a prompt will appear asking what is plugged
        into port 1. If you wish to play with two joysticke, now is the time
        to plug in your other joystick. 
 
Select Game Options: 
 
	Once the game is loaded and the first prompt has been answered, a 
        "Game Options" menu will appear. This will allow you to choose which 
        team will be the "Home" team (and of course the other team will be 
        the "Visitors"), whether or not to play with a designated hitter 
        (someone who bats in the place of the pitcher), and which (if any) 
        of the two teams will be played by the computer. Use the mouse/
        joystick to highlight your selection. Press the button to proceed. 
 
ALL-STARS (Red)			CHAMPS (Blue) 
Home				Visitor 
Visitor				Home 
Home				Visitor (DH) 
Visitor				Home (DH) 
 
	If you have a mouse connected to Port 1, you will then highlight 
        and select one of the following choices in the same manner as above:
 
ALL-STARS				CHAMPS 
Joystick 2				Mouse 
Mouse				        Joystick 2 
Computer				Joystick 2 
Mouse				        Computer 
Computer				Mouse 
Computer				Computer 
 
	If you have a joystick plugged into Port 1, you will have the 
        following options: 
 
ALL-STARS				CHAMPS 
Joystick 1				Joystick 2 
Joystick 2				Computer 
Computer				Joystick 2 
Computer				Computer 
 
Make your selection and press the button to proceed. 
 
How to Select the Pitch Type: 
 
	When the Pitcher screen is first displayed, you will see (on the 
        bottom left) the four pitch types this pitcher can throw. When using
        a joystick, simply move the stick in the direction of the arrow that
        is next to the desired pitch type and press the button. 
	When using a mouse, move the mouse up or down until your desired 
        pitch type is highlighted, then press the mouse button. Your pitch
        type has now been selected. 
 
How to Throw the Pitch: 
 
	After you have made your pitch type selection and the batter has
        selected what he wants to do: 
	If using a joystick, move it in the position you wish to throw the
        ball and press the fire button. For example, moving the joystick
        left will cause the ball to be thrown left, and so on. 
	If using a mouse you will see a "tic-tac-toe" grid. By moving the
        mouse, you can move the white box around the grid. If the box is in
        the middle, the pitch will go to the middle, if it is on the left,
        the pitch will go to the left, etc. Press the mouse button when you
        get to the box corresponding to where you want to throw the pitch.
        Your pitch type has now been selected. The pitch will be thrown when
        you release the mouse button. 
 
Fielding the Ball: 
 
	After the ball has been hit, either the left side or the right side
        of the field will be shown (the side with the ball in it). The 
        fielder who is closest to the ball will be flashing, and will run in
        the direction selected by moving the mouse/joystick. 
 
Throwing to a Base: 
 
	Once the fielder has got the ball, if using a mouse, a grid comes
        up in the lower left-hand corner of the screen with the numbers 
        (and letter) " 1 2 3 H". Move the mouse in the direction of the base
        you want to throw to and press the button. For a joystick, move the
        joystick in the direction indicated by the arrow and press the fire
        button. 
 
MANAGER'S DECISION SCREEN 
 
	The four screens displayed during HardBall are: The Manager's 
        Decision Screen, the Pitcher/Batter Screen, Left Field View, and 
        Right Field View. 
	The game begins with the Manager's Decision Screen. It will also
        appear if a player presses the space bar on the keyboard at any time
        during the pitcher screen. In the Manager's Screen, pressing the
        space bar will "Play Ball: (starting the game action or continuing
        where you left off).  This screen will display a selected line-up
        for both teams. "\/" (check mark) will indicate who is at bat and
        there will also be an indication of who is on which base (1b, 2b, 
        or 3b), how they bat (Right, Left, or Switch), the position they 
        play and their batting average. 
        Below each team's roster will be a menu of management decision 
        options which each player may select by highlighting the option and
        pressing the mouse/joystick button. In the case of "substitution"
        or "exchange positions", additional screen prompts will be displayed
        at the bottom. 
        For the other options, highlight your selection and press the mouse/
        joystick button. The options are as follows: 
 
For the team in the field (defense) - 5 choices 
	Player Substitution 
	Exchange Positions 
	Outfield (Normal, Shift right, or Shift left)  --- 
	Infield (Normal or Double Play)         Parameter Options 
	(NO) Intentional Walk                          --- 
 
For the team at bat (offense) - 3 choices 
	Player Substitution 
	Exchange Positions 
	Switch Hit (if appropriate) 
 
	If either player selects "Substitution" or "Exchange Positions", 
        the lower portion of the Manager's Decision Screen will change to
        the appropriate team. In these modes, press the space bar in the 
        middle of an activity to cancel and return to the game. 
 
SUBSTITUTION: 
 
	A line will be displayed to select "Substitute" (from bench) with
        (on roster) at which time the highlighted entry can be selected by
        moving the joystick up/down (selecting a player) and pressing the
        fire button/right mouse button. When the bench entry is specified,
        you can scroll the list of players on the bench up or down within
        a 3-line window at the bottom of the screen. Then select the desired
        player to come onto the field by pressing the fire button/right
        mouse button. When the roster entry is selected, the cursor can be
        moved up or down the roster list, then press the fire button/left
        mouse button to select the player to come off the field.
        Note: Once a player is substituted out (after the first pitch),
        he can't return to the field and doesn't go to the bench list.
        The new player coming onto the field will replace him at his current
        position. 
 
EXCHANGE POSITIONS: 
 
	Choose the entry to be filled first in a manner similar to that
        defined above for "Substitution" on the line
        "exchange------------position with --------position". This will
        allow vertical scrolling of cursor through the roster positions and
        will show each corresponding player's full performance statistics 
        at the bottom of the screen. Press the fire button/left mouse button
        to select position to be exchanged.  If you select a player in a
        position for which he is not suited, the appropriate message (i.e.,
        "player out of position") will be displayed later. There will also
        be the likelihood of an error in play or poor pitching. 
	Remember, press the space bar to start (or continue) play of the
        game.
  
GAME PLAY 
 
	Play begins with the pitcher's screen depicting the pitcher, 
        batter, and umpire. At the bottom of the screen there will be two
        sets of commands. The commands on the left are for the team pitching,
        (fielding team) and the commands in the middle of the screen are for
        the team at bat. The right side is reserved for displaying the score,
        strikes, balls and other information. 
	The pitcher must select one of the four types of pitches displayed.
        Each pitcher has only four types of pitches he can throw. There are
        eight types of pitches altogether: 

 	Fastball! (straight and very fast) 
	Fastball (straight and fast) 
	Offspeed (straight) 
	Change-up (straight slower pitch) 
	Curve ball (a big sweeping curve) 
	-for lefthanded pitchers, the ball curves to the right 
	-for righthanded pitchers, the ball curves to the left 
	Screwball (opposite of curve ball) 
	-for lefthanded pitchers the ball curves to the left 
	-for righthanded pitchers the ball curves to the right 
	Sinker (breaks downward) 
	Slider (fast breaking curve) 
 
	The batter must also decide what he wants to do. His options are
        bunting and stealing bases (any base can be stolen if there is a
        player in the position to do so). If the batter wants to swing 
        normally, just press fire button/mouse button. If using a joystick
        and you wish to select steal or bunt, hold the fire button down 
        while moving the joystick in the direction of the arrow next to the
        desired option. Do not release the button until you have selected 
        all your options. If using a mouse, highlight each option and press
        button. 
	Once both players have made their selections, a new set of choices 
        are presented at the bottom of the screen. The pitcher will be able
        to select the location of the pitch (i.e., high, inside, etc.) 
        according to his mouse or joystick selection. 
 
Nine pitching zones over home plate: 
 
2	1	2	x = always a strike 
1	X	1	1 = high probability of being a strike 
2	1	2	2 = low probability of being a strike 
 
	When the ball is hit, the receiving fielder will be identified by 
        blinking. The player may use the mouse/joystick to move the fielder
        so he can catch (or pick up) the ball. Once he has the ball, he can
        throw to any of the 4 bases (1st, 2nd, 3rd, or Home). 
	The team at bat can decide which bases to run to according to the
        mouse positions or joystick direction in his command window. You 
        may not run to a base if there is already someone on it. You cannot
        change your mind once you start running. 
 
MISCELLANEOUS NOTES 
 
	As a pitcher gets tired, the probability of throwing a strike goes
        down. 
	Certain pitchers will be stronger in some pitching types. 
	If pitch is not in the strike zone, the batter can swing but can't
        hit the ball. 
	When the ball is hit, the fielding screen is displayed and (unless
        it is a foul ball) when the play is completed, the Manager's 
        Decision Screen will be displayed momentarily before returning to
        the pitching/batting screen. 
	When bunting with 2 strikes against you, if the ball goes foul,
        it is considered your 3rd strike. 
	Runners have the option of running to the next base upon reaching 
        a base after a hit. If you tell a runner to steal a base and the
        batter doesn't hit the ball, then the catcher will attempt to throw
        the lead runner out. 
	When someone first steps up to bat, some of his statistics will
        be displayed. 
	You may change the flag on the Manager's Decision Screen by pressing
        Alt-A for an American Flay (default) or Alt-C for a Canadian flag. 
 
SCOUTING TIPS FROM BOB WHITEHEAD 
 
	Say hey! Well, I don't know about you but I'll never get the chance
        to play and manage on a big league baseball team, probably the same
        goes for you. Real baseball that is, like you see at the ballpark
        or on network TV. So I used Hard Ball to fulfill some of my
        fantasies and hope you enjoy doing the same. And, like any good
        manager, you need to develop a good scouting report. So I thought
        I would give you a partial scouting report on some of the pitchers
        to give you a head start. 
 
ALL-STARS					CHAMPS 
Rush - Throws a lot of junk		Euler - Good screwball 
Levins - Control pitcher		James - Watch for the fastball 
Atkins - Nothing but heat		Morlini - Bullpen veteran 
Estrada - Ace reliever			Tompkins - Smoke 
 
