
TYPED OUT BY /VASTY BOY on 22/23th July 1991
SUPPLIED BY JOANNE

                         KEEF THE THIEF V2.3
                         -------------------
                  TRAVEL GUIDE TO THE TRI-CITY AREA


Contents.
---------
 
          Goodbye Keef.And Good Riddance!.....................1
          History of the Tri-City Area........................2
          What You See........................................6
          Getting Around......................................7
          The Movement Sword..................................7
          Cursor Control......................................8
          Status..............................................8
          Combat..............................................9
          Spells..............................................10
          Action Buttons......................................13
          Keef Menu...........................................16
                   Status.....................................17
                   Abilities..................................18
                   Inventory..................................19
                   Score......................................20
                   Sleep......................................21
          File Menu...........................................21         
          Border Colours......................................22
          
                 

GOODBYE, KEEF.AND GOOD RIDDANCE!
--------------------------------

...says the Eldest One as you stand before the Town Council...

We've been more than generous with you,but our patience has finally run out.
For years I have known this day would come,and now that its upon us,I'll be
glad to get rid of you.Ever since you was abandoned as a baby in front of the
Temple of Mem,I have known that you were destined to live a life on the
streets.

Our Priests tried to train you in the ways of the Mem,but you blasphemed your
way into the gutter.Then out Lords tried to train you in the ways of
Battle,but you angered the other apprentices with your victory dancing until
they drove you away.Then our Wizard tried to teach you in the ways of Magic,
but your zeal for practical jokes put you on his black list too.Finally,when
there was no-one left to train you,you trained yourself in the art of theft.

Son,you bave an attitude problem.

Well,we've had just about enough of you,Keef.We the Council hereby banish you
to the jungle.I doubt that you know this,but this but a tiny flea on the body
of a great dog.From this day forward,you are to go free anywhere you please,
except here.Though I might say that some parts of the dog are better than
others.For instance,I wouldn't climb down any dark holes if I could help it.

...The Eldest One escorts you out of town,and finally the two of you are in
the jungle alone...

                                   -1-

Welcome to the Tri-City Area,my boy.It's a rich land with easy pickings for
todays successful,cosmopolitan thief.You,on the other hand,might have some
trouble.With only the rags on your bag and a few meagre gold pieces in your
pocket,you'll be lucky to survive these days.But I insist that you do survive
 - I have fifty gold pieces at four-to-one odds riding on it.

You have many talents that we cannot take from you.you're a priest without a
prayer,a warrior without a weapon,a mage without a book and a thief without a
tool.There's a whole continent for you to conquerer out there.To the South is
Same Mercon,a very wealthy city,for starters.Since the fall of Telloc,the
God-King,it's been the centre of abundance and decadence for the whole
Tri-City Area.If theres any justice in the world,you'll give those smug
bastards a run for their money.

...With a not-so-gentle push,the Eldest One sends you on your way.Then he
chuckles and calls after you one last piece of advice...

You won't find the natives of the jungle very hospitable,so you might want to
find a stout tree limb to defend yourself with.And remember,young Keef,I 
don't ever want to see you here again.Not even if you DO conquerer the world
and become God-King.


HISTORY OF THE TRI-CITY AREA
----------------------------

The Eldest One was wrong when he said you did not know of the world at large.
In the taverns you frequented while growing up (the really sleazy bars did
not enforce the minimum drinking age),you heard many things about what lay
beyond the city gates.There are those in the world who are cursed with a
perfect memory; doomed to remember every experience they survive,every
sensation they endure,and every word they hear.You are not so afflicted.In
fact,you have a very bad memory.

                                   -2-

But as a child in the Church of Mem,you did learn three arts of lasting
value: how to read,how to write and how to gossip.And you found that the idle
words of others often became very important and useful,though they seemed
frivolous and petty at the time.So with your bad memory,you learned to take
notes.Scattered throughout your clothing (in your sandals,in your belt,and in
your shorts) are dozens of little scraps of paper with notes written on them. 

Many of your notes are about the history of the Tri-City Area,and you decide
that now would be a good time to review them.You sit down in the jungle and
after sorting through an unruly pile of folded paper,you organise this
historical account...

For longer than anyone can remember,and a bit longer,the world was darkened
with strife and chaos.The only civilisation on the Continent was in the small
city of Mercon on the edge of the Great Southern Bay.Then a man who called
himself Telloc rose to unimaginable power in an unbelievably short period of
time.He killed the Lord of Mercon and captured the city.He organised all the
people of the Continent and declared himself Emperor and God-King.(Others
also declared themselves Emperor at this time,but no-one had heard of any of
them,and they were largely ignored).Then Emperor Telloc turned Mercon into a
great capital-city,which he renamed Tel-Mercom,which means Emperors city.
("Tel" means "Emperor" in the old language,or it means "Damnit",depending
upon the translation).

In the year 101 T.R (Tel Rocol,or Emperors Years),Emporer Telloc felt that
the Towers of Mercon were no longer fashionable,so he gathered together a
legion of slaves and recently-unemployed barbarians to build a palace.He
called this palace Tel Empor (Emperor's Home).Telloc's egotism was increasing
by leaps and bounds.

For two centuries,relatively little of interest happened.Then in the year 336
T.R,a mountain to the north erupted with flames,maliciously melting the ice
off the tops of the other northern mountains.The resulting flood of water
raced down the Tel Roca (Emperor's River) to the sea.On the way,it stopped
briefly in Tel Mercon to completely destroy the city.

As the Emperor wished,Tel Mercon was rebuilt on stilts above the ruins.This
new city was named tel Mercon.(This the Emperor also wished,saying that
changing the name would require far too much paperwork).

Early in the fifth century,a great and profound prophet named Al Handratta
reappeared after a five-hundred year vacation.Before his disappearance,he had
the reputaion of being a powerful soothsayer,though he was often confusing
and childish.His predictions were always written in verse and his prophesies
were often so obscure that they could only be understood after the foretold
event had passed.This led many to believe that his brand of soothsaying was
no better than reading horoscopes.

                                   -3-
 
When he reappeared half a millenium later,he gave Emperor Telloc a prophesy
called the Tel Profi (Emperor's Prophesy) and disappeared again.The Emperor
was so distressed by what he read - though he was very vague on what he
thought it meant - he sent an army into the sothwest corner of the Continent
after Al Handratta.The soldiers never returned. 

Emperor Telloc waxed paranoid.He built a massive fortress in the north called
Tel Hande (Emperor's Shield).He hid in Tel Hande for many decades,and he
performed magical experiments he hoped would save him from Al's prophesy.
Meanwhile,he completly forgot about his people.Finally,in the year 666 T.R,
the starving peasants laid siege upon the fortress.Fearing for his life,the
Emperor cast an evil spell to protect himself,but instead he vanished in a
puff of disgusting green smoke,fulfilling the prophesy himself.He was never  
seen again,and it is said at the exact moment he disappeared,Al Handratta
could be heard in the jungle chanting,"I told you so,I told you so!"

The world fell into a long peroid of darkness that the people spitefully
called Tel Dimon (Emeror's Darkness).Tel Empor fell into ruins and has long
been abandoned to the jungle.Tel Hande closed it's doors to all outsiders and
is now a ruthless police state filled with descendants of the original
inhabitants,called the Tel Yonge (Emperor's Children).They all believed that
a hundred years ago,Emperor Telloc just stepped out for a moment,and that he
would be returning in any minute.

Tel Mercon became a city-state that specialized in business and trade.One day
a fisherman pulled a gold-encrusted object from the sea and used it to pay
off his debts.On his deathbed,he whispered to his wife,"Tel Manhana,Simtoo 
Ligoulda," which means "Emperor's Arm",Ancient and Godsend Figure." (Or it
means,"Damnit,you're kneeling on my hand," again depending on the translator)

After the object was placed in the Tel Mercon Treasury,the city became the 
richest in the land,with luck and good trade that was almost supernatural.
To commemorate this,they cut their ties with the old world by renaming the
city Same Mercon (Jeweled City).

                                   -4-

Meanwhile,in an almost forgotten city in the jungle,Tel Santi (Emperor's
Roost),a strange and wonderous artifact was found.After everyone stopped
arguing about who it belonged to,they decided it was divine and converted Tel
Santi into a temple,which they renamed Mem Santi (God's Roost).It is said
that the artifact is kept ina maze called The Maze of Six Doors.the artifact
is periodically moved to one of six rooms at random,and opening the wrong
door teleports you to a spot elsewhere in the maze.It is also said that
pilgrims travel far and wide just to donate all their worldly riches to the
treasury of the temple.

Thats the end of the notes you have on history.You do have a copy of the Tel
Profi,but the rest of your notes concern various aspects of living in the
town you have just left forever.You let these now useless scraps drift away
into the breeze like confetti.But as you do,you recall a conversation you had
heard the night before with a few other drunks in the tavern.Everyone had
their own pet theory about the world.This is what you heard...

One drunken old man said Telloc was not really dead,and thathe would someday
return to take back his kingdom.

One drunken old woman said an evil and powerful magician was on the verge of
discovering the power that enabled Telloc to become God-King,and he would use
it to take over the world.

One drunken kid your age said that the entire Tri-City Area was actually on
the back of a giant armadillo,and if you dug deep enough you would reach its
armour.

The bartender,who had sampled his own whisky a bit too much,said that there
was a tribe of a thousand buxom women to the southeast,and they waited for
the right champion to serve in achieving thier goal of world conquest and
total submission.

Its hard to believe what people tell you sometimes.

                                   -5-

WHAT YOU SEE
------------

The main picture represents your front view.It's either the territory in
front of you,your combat screen,or your mixing spell cloth.
In the centre of the screen below your front view is your list of action
buttons.Select these fuctions to perform actions.For a description of how to
use these buttons,and a complete list of actions,see the ACTION BUTTONS
section.

The border around the screen changes colour to tell you what is happening;
like you're casting a spell,or you're sustaining damage,etc.For a complete
list of border colours,see the BORDER COLOURS section.

* You're often shown a list of people,places or things in the text area or
  on a dialog box.If the list is longer than there is room to show,the bottom
right corner of the page will be turned up.Click on this turned-up part to
turn the page,or press [Space].

                                   -6-

GETTING AROUND
--------------

On the scroll to your right is your Movement Sword which you can use to get
around.You can also get around by moving the cursor onto the front view and
indicationg where you want to go.All keyboard commands are listed on the
Command Summary Card.

There's a circle to the lower left of the sword; this is your compass.The
letter inside - N,E,S,or W - indicates the direction you're facing.This is
important because the direction you're facing is not necessarily the same as 
the last direction you chose to move.The direction you are facing depends on
where you are,not how you got there.In combat,the compass direction you're
facing is not important,and so the compass shows a dash.


THE MOVEMENT SWORD
------------------

In jungles and denugeons,each of the four sides or the sword has an
arrow.Selecting the arrow that points up moves you forward.the right and left
arrows rotate you 90 degress.The back arrow than curls back on itself turns
you around without actually moving you.All the arrows are shown even if you
can't go in all directions.In certain places,like on bridges,the right and
left arrows disappear.
During combat,the Movement Sword is the same as in jungles and dungeons
except the down arrow moves you back a step while you still face the same
direction.The lrft and right arrows only turn you 45 degrees.
In towns or special places,each of the four sides of the Movement Sword has a
direction: N,S,or W.Select a dirction to attempt to move in that direction.
All directions are shown,even if you cannot use all of them.

                                   -7-

Next to the sword are two arrows: select the one labeled U to climb up;
select the one marked D to climb down again.Again,these arrows are shown even
if you cant climb in both directions.In combat you cant go up or down.


CURSOR CONTROL
--------------

In jungles or dungeons,or during combat,moving your cursor up onto your
front-view turns it into an arrow.Near the top it becomes an up arrow,and
near the left or right it becomes a left or right arrow.Near the bottom in
jungles or dungeons,it becomes the turnaround arrow.Clicking on your view
with an arrow cursor is the same as selecting that same arrow on Movement
Sword.
In towns and special places,if you move your cursor onto your front-view to a
place you can enter (like the Open Gate of Same Mercon),your cursor becomes
four converging arrows.Click to enter the place your cursor is
indicating.When there are places to enter,the action button Entr is
available.When you select this,you'll get a list in the text area of possible
places to go.Select the place you want to enter.
 
                                   -8-

STATUS
------

Below the Movement Sword on the scroll are you're status indicators.From left
to right they are: Sleep,Food,Health,and Gold.Each indicator is divided into
three regions.For Sleep,Food,and Health,the lower right corner is blood red.
This si the bad end of the scale; representing Exhausted,Starving and Dying
respectively.the upper left corner is bright green.This is the good end of
the scale; representing Awake,Fed and Healthy.The large region in the centre
of the indicator will be a colour somewhere between the two ends,indicating
where you are on the scale.If you start getting into the red,you should
consider getting some sleep,finding some food or getting yourself fixed up.
The scale for Gold works the same,except the bottom of the scale is grey,
meaning broke and at the top of the scale is yellow,meaning Rich.

Move your cursor over these indicators and it will turn into an eye.Selecting
any indicator displays your status window which gives more details on your
current condition.See STATUS in the KEEF Menu section for more information.


COMBAT
------

At one point ot another you're going to aggravate somebody enough to start a
fight,either on purpose or by accident.When this happens,your front view
changes to combat mode 
The front view shows what's in front of you.Your field of vision extends 45
degrees to either side of straight ahead.
The Map shows where you and your opponents are in the immediate area: you are
the white dot,enemies are the orange dots,and other colours represent 
obstacles.such as trees or rocks.


                                   -9-


The view indicator has a line that shows you which direction you're facing on
the map,and this is the direction you move when you select the up arrow on
the Movement Sword.
The Stats show you current hit points,the direction you're facing,and your
weapon status.Your direction is measured in degrees counting counterclockwise
with 0 representing facing right.The weapon status bar shows green where you
can attack.After you attack,it shows red until you're ready to attack again.
The text area lists all your adversaries.Black text represents living enemies
and dimmed text represents killed enemies.
To attack,press [Space].You can also attack with your cursor.Move your cursor
to above the front view window,and it will turn into a sword.Clicking with a
sword cursir attacks.If you miss,the screen border flashes flesh.If you hit,
the border flashes white and a gash appears briefly on your enemy.If your
enemy hits you,the border flashes red and your view flashes orange.
In your front view,there's a triangle under the oppenent you're fighting.The
colour of this triangle indicates the condition of your oppenent.White means
healthy; brown means dying.The darker the colour,the worse you enemy's
condition.
To change weapons during combat,select Use to display your inventory.See the
INVENTORY section for details on using items.
The fight will stop only if you kill all your enemies,die a fool's death or
successfully run away like a coward by selecting Run.


SPELLS
------

Spells are created by burning special reagents in a magic circle.The circle,
ceremony,and ingredients required to create the spells are contained in spell
books in the form of scrolls.As you begin your new life in the country,you
have no spell-books,so you must find one before you can mix spells.
Once you get your hands on a spell-book,read it to see what spells you can
create.To read it,select Use,and then double-click on the name of the scroll.
Press [Space] to turn the pages.Select OK to return to your main screen.


                                   -10-


MIXING SPELLS
-------------

In the description of each spell are clues as to which reagents are needed to
mix that spell.Acquire these reagents,then enter mixing mode by selecting
Mix.This shows you your bearskin mixing cloth,along with your spell flame and
your stock of reagents.
All speels require from one to three reagents.Select a reagent by clicking on
it on your mixing skin.A square appears around your selection and the name of
the reagent asppears in the text area to confirm your choice.(Before you
select any ingredients,the text area says "nothing").Also in the text area is
the name of the magic circle you're using to mix your spells.If you dont want
to use that reagent,select it again to put it back.Or you can select New 
which puts all your selected ingredients away so you can start over.
When you feel you have the correct reagent combination,select Mix to ignite
the reagents with the proper ceremony.If you're successful,the screen flashes
purple and the name of the spell you created is displayed at the top of the
screen.If you're unsuccessful,your attempt will fizzle miserably.Try
something else.If you want another look at your current spell book,select
Look.
If you get hold of another spell book,you have another set of spells you can
mix.Press [Space] or click in the circle on your mixing skin to cycle through
your spell books.Remember,you must ignite the correct reagents in the proper
circle to mix any spell.
When you are done mixing spells,select Cncl to return to the main screen.

 
                                   -11-

CASTING SPELLS
--------------

To cast a spell,select Cast.Your list of spells appears.At the bottom of the
list is your magic points.The number on the right is your total number of
possible magic points,based on your wisdom.To the left is the number of
magic points you currently have,and this number decreases with each spell you
cast (e.g.,13/17).Sleeping if you're tired,or just not casting any spells for
a while,increases your available magic points.Your maximum number of points
rises as you gain experience and wisdom.
Double-click on the spell you want to cast,and the border flashes purple.The
amount of magic points required to cast that spell is deducted from your
total current magic points.If you dont have enough magic points to cast the
spell you chose,the screen flashes red,you get hurt,the spell doesn't
work,and you use up all your current magic points.Its upto you to figuire out
how many magic points each spell costs by checking your magic points before
and after casting it.


                                   -12-


During combat,selecting Cast displays the Qwik-Cast screen,where all of your 
offensive/defensive spels are abbrieviated.Your magic points are displayed to
the right.In this mode,only spells you have enough spell points to cast are
available.All unavailable spells are dimmed.Click on the spell you want to
cast,or type the first letter of its abbreviation. 


ACTION BUTTONS
--------------

IN the centre of the screen below your front view is your list of action
buttons.The actions in black type are available,the dimmed ones are not.To
perform an action,click on the mouse.Unless told otherwise,whenever you're
asked to select an option you should click on an action button or press the
keyboard command for that action.All keyboard commands are listed on the
Command Summary Card.

 LOOK - Describes the room.Or,if you're mixing spells,this opens your current
 spell book.
 
 SEARCH (SRCH) - Search the room for anything special,including hidden
 objects and secret doors.If you find an object,the GET option appears.

 GET - Get an object discovered after SRCH.A list of items appears in the
 text area.Click on what you want ot take.Once you take something,it's yours;
 you cant drop objects.But dont woory,you can carry as much stuff as you
 want.
 
 ENTER (ENTR) - Go to a special place.A list of places appears in the text
 area.Click on where you want to go.Or you can move the cursor on the front
 view where you want to enter (the cursor becomes for converging arrows),and
 click.

                                  
                                   -13-


 TALK - Talk to people you meet.A list of people appears in the text area.
 Click on who you want to talk to.Or you can move the cursor on the front
 view to the person you want to talk to (the cursor becomes a dialog balloon) 
 and click.Since you're new in town,plan on talking to people a lot to find
 out whats going on.

 ASK - Ask questions of the person you are talking to.A list of questions
 appear in the text area.Click on the question you want to ask.the number to
 the right of each question is the cost in gold pieces; and you'll find out
 that talk isn't necessarily cheap. 

 SHOW - Offer an item to someone you're talking to.A list of items appears
 in the text area (you can only show items,not weapons,armour,spells,reagents
 or artifacts).Use show to sell stolen merchandise to people.

 HAGGLE (HAGLE) - Attempt to reduce prices when you're trying to buy
 something.Sometimes you'll irritate the merchant and the prices go up.You
 can only haggle once per store.You must sleep in an Inn before you can
 return and haggle again.

 BUY - Purchase items from people or places.If there is more than one store,a
 list of stores appears in the text area.Click on the one you want.You can
 also choose your store by moving your cursor onto the front view (it becomes
 a dollar sign $),and then click to select that store.Now click on the item
 that you to buy.The amount of gold you have is listed just above the text
 area.If you want to buy something from a person,you have to talk to them
 first.be warned,however,that many merchants are unscrupulous (just like you) 
 and often take more money than the asking price.

 
                                   -14-

 STEAL - Steal items instead of paying for them.This sometimes becomes
 available after you select BUY,or it becomes available right away if an item
 is not for sale.Watch out for traps.Expect to hurt yourself from time to
 time.

 REMOVE (RMV) - If the RMV button is available,then the item you're about to
 steal is booby-trapped.Select RMV and a list of traps appears in the text
 area (your cursor becomes scissors).Select the trap you want to try to
 disarm.Now a list of ways to diarm the trap are shown in the tex area.Do it
 wrong and you'll get burned.Even if you do the right thing,you might screw
 it up anyway if your disarming ability is poor.
 
 LOCK - Attempt to pick the lock of the door in front of you.You must have
 lock picks to do this.You can also move the cursor onto the front view and
 place it over the lock,where it becomes scissors; click to pick the lock.

 USE - Use an object.When you selevt this,you're shown your inventory.Find
 the object you wish to use (see the INVENTORY section for more info on using
 objects) and double-click on it.Using books can read them,using spells can
 cast them,using flint and stell torches,etc.You can USE armour and weapons
 to decide which armour to wear and which weapons to weild.When you use an
 item,the border flashes green to confirm your action.

 OTHER - Perorm a special action,usually limited to a certain place.Its a
 good idea to check this once in a while.
 
 FIGHT - Pick a fight.A list appears in the text area.Selelct who you want to
 fight.A word of caution; you cant run from a fight you started.

                                    -15-

 RUN - Attempt to run from a fight.If you're successful,the fight ends.If you
 dont make it,you must continue to fight to the death.You cant try more than
 once to run from a fight.

 CAST - Lets you cast a spell.Find the spell you want to cast in the
 displayed inventory (your cursor becomes a lightning bolt),and double-click
 on it.The screen border will flash purple to confirm your action.See the
 SPELLS section for more details.

 MIX - Puts you into Mix Spell mode.See "Mixing Spells" in the spells section
 for more details.

 NEW - Removes all selected reagents from the mixing cloth when in Mix Spell
 mode.You can now choose new reagents.

 MAP - Looks at your map if you have one.Your position is the X in the
 centre,and you are shown the surrounding area.Select CNCL to stop looking at
 the map.  

 CANCEL (CNCL) - Takes you out of the mode you last entered.For instance,if
 you enter the mixing mode,exit by selecting CNCL.If you enter talking mode,
 and then you enter asking mode,select CNCL twice to return to normal mode. 


KEEF MENU
---------

This menu gives you access to information about who you are,what you have and
who you want to be.


                                    -16-
*STATUS*

Select Status to check your current state of being.Many of the scales are
shown in percentages,where the higher the percent,the better you are in that
category.Select OK to resume the game.

 Strength - Affects the amount of damage you give and recieve in combat.
 Speed - Affects how well you hit and dodge in combat,as well as your ability
 to run from a fight.
 Constitution - Your ability to endure.which sets your hit points.
 Wisdom - Your accumulated wisdom,which determines your magic points.
 Luck - This affects that random elements afflicts us all,including success  
 at disarming traps,running from a fight,etc.
 Charisma - Affects how well you deal with people you want something from.
 Higher charisma helps you haggle.
 Health - Your current percentage of your maximum hit points. 
 Hit Points - The number of hits you have next to your possible total.
 Nutrition - How hungry you are; 100% means you are not hungry.
 Sobriety - How drunk you are; 100% means completely sober.
 

                                    -17-

 Sleep - How tired you are; 100% means you're wide awake. 
 Gold - The number of gold pieces you have.You cannot carry more than 9999.
 Magic Points - The number of magic points you have to the left of your
 possible total.Casting spells reduce your magic points; when it reaches 0,
 you cant cast anymore.
 Experience - The number of experience points you've accumulated.You gain
 experience to gain levels.
 Level - Your current level.Your atributes increase as you gain levels.


*ABILITIES*

Select Abilities to check the current status of your abilities.Many of the 
scales shown are shown in percentages,where the higher the percent,the better
you are in that category.Select OK to resume the game.

 Disarming - How adept you are disarming traps.
 Stealing - How adept you are at stealing items.
 Unlocking - How adept you are at picking locks.
 Lock Picks - The number you are carrying.
 Flints - The number of flints you're carrying.(YOu dont need torches,just
 flint and stell.Dungeons have torches on the walls).
 Weapon Strength - Affects how much damage you can inflict during combat.


                                    -18-

 Weapon Speed - Affects your effectiveness in combat and how quickly you can 
 use your weapon repeatedly.
 Weapon Range - The maximum distance you can attack with your weapon.
 Armour Strength - Affects how much damage you recieve in combat.
 Armour Speed - Affects how well you can dodge blows in combat.
 Experience - The number of experience points you;ve accumulated.You gain 
 experience to gain levels.
 Level - Your current level.Your attributes increase as you gain levels.


*INVENTORY*

Selecting Inventory displays your inventory in six different categories;
weapons,armour,spells,reagents,artifacts and items.Select the icon to see
that inventory and the list appears.
You can choose which weapon you want to use from the inventory list.Double-
click on the weapon you want,and either one or two dots appear to the left of
it.One dot means a one-handed weapon and two dots means a two-handed weapon.
You can select two one-handed weapons but only one two-handed weapon.At the
bottom of the list are percentages for weapon strength,weapon speed,armour
strength and armour speed.See *ABILITIES* for more information.
You can choose any armour you want to use from the inventory list.Double-
click on the armour you want.If one dot appears,the armour must be held with
one hand (like a shield) and that hand cannot hold a weapon.

                                    -19-

If two squares appear,then they are gloves,and you can still hold something
else with each hand.A helm means the armour is a helmet and a breasts plate
means its body armour - one of each to a customer.
If you want to use different weapons and armour,first select Hands and Skin.
Now select the weapons and armour you want.

* Selecting OK does NOT choose the highlighted item.You must double-click on
  it to choose it.


*SCORE*

This lists the different aspects of your quest for power and glory,broken
down into five catergories: treasure,magic,thieving,quest,and experience.
Select OK to resume the game.

 Treasure - Based on how much treasure you've taken from monsters you've
 killed.
 Magic - Based on your wisdom,success at casting spells,and how many spell
 books and magic items you have. 
 Thieving - Based on how successfuly you've practised your thieving skills.
 Quest - How close you are to achieving world domination.Call it a gut
 feeling.
 Experience - The number of experience points you've accumulated.
 Total - The average of all the above scores.
 
                                     -20-

*SLEEP*

You cant go on forever without sleep.If you get too tired,you'll become a 
stumbling,fumbling,and bumbling fool.You'll hurt yourself unless you select
SLEEP.You can sleep anywhere you want,but sleeping outdoors invites an
ambush.Sleeping at an inn is preferable.Also,if you sleep in an inn by rent-
ing a room for the night,your physical condition improves,and some of your
magic points rejuventate.


FILE MENU
---------

This menu lets you control various game features.

Load Game: Loads your saved games from the Keef the Thief Art disk.Select
Continue to proceed or Cancel.You can only have one saved game at a time.
Save Game: Saves your game to disk.Make sure your Keef the Thief Art disk is 
in the drive and select Continue.You can only have one saved game at a time,
so if you save on that disk again,the previous game will be wiped. 
New Game: Restarts the game from the beginning.Select Continue if you're sure
you want to restart,or Cancel to resume the game.
Fewer Monsters: Reduces the number of monsters you'll encounter. 
Easier Monsters: Reduces the power of monsters you'll encounter.

                                    
                                     -21-


Music On: Toggles the music on or off.
Quit: Quits the game without saving your progress.Select Continue if you're
sure you want to quit,or select Cancel to resume the game.


APPLE MENU
----------

This menu contains the game credits.

About Keef: Select this to see the program credits.Select OK to resume game.
About Soundtrack: Select this to see the music credits.OK to resume game.
Naught Dog: Shows the Naughty Dog page.OK to resume.


BORDER COLOURS
--------------

BLUE - You hear a guard's footsteps.
BROWN - Normal.
FLESH - You've attacked and missed. 
GREEN - You've used an item.
ORANGE - You've bumped into something.
PURPLE - You've cast a spell.
RED - You've been hurt.
WHITE - You've attacked and hit.

                                    -22-


Dox finished at 8.10pm.
