                                                             Electronic Arts
TYPED OUT BY /VASTY BOY
SUPPLIED BY JOANNE

                  COMMAND CARD FOR KEEF THE THIEF V2.3
                  ------------------------------------


 LOADING THE GAME

Before playing Keef,you should copy the two disks.Put the original disks
away and play with the copies.

* Your backup copy of Disk 1 must be called KEEF1 and your backup of Disk 2
  must be called KEEF2.

If you're going to play using the mouse,make sure its plugged into Port 1.

 
 THREE CARD SANTI (Copy Protection!)

Forget this shit,because I have wiped it out anyway!

 AMIGA LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

* If your Amiga only has 512k,you must disconnect all external drives.

1. Turn on the computer.(A1000 users,insert Kickstart 1.2 or 1.3)
2. When the Workbench prompt comes up,insert Keef 1.
3. When the promt comes up for Keef 2,remove disk 1 and insert disk 2.
4. When title-screen appears,press any key.
5. You are now required to win the mandatory game of Santi (Oh No you aint!)


 MENUS

To show the menus at the top of the screen,press the right mouse button.Move
the cursor along the top bar to reveal menus under the categories Game,Keef
and Options.Highlight your selection and release the button.

Amiga users have different menus to the ones discribed in the manual.The
Game menu selections can be found in the manual under the FILE MENU section.

* Although the screen gadgets are visable,they do not function because Keef
  the Thief doesn't support multi-tasking.

All other selections,referred to in the manual as mouse-clicks and
double-clicks are chosen by clicking of double-clicking on the left mouse
button.


 KEYBOARD COMMANDS 

The keyboard commands for menu selections are shown on the pulldown menus.
Use the Right-Amiga key to access menus from the keyboard.

* You cannot save your game everywhere in Tri-City Area; only in jungles and
  parts of Same Mercon.

 Dialog Boxes
 ------------
Press the up and down cursors to move the highlight up and down.Press [Q] to
select the highlighted selection.Press [Return] to continue or [Esc] to
cancel.

 Movement Sword
 --------------
You can use the four cursor keys to move; they correspond to the four sides
of the movement sword.Press [+] to go up and [-] to go down.

 Action Buttons
 --------------
Some of the actions below use the same key,but never at the same time.

   A - Ask                 H - Haggle                P - Map
   B - Buy                 H - Search                R - Remove
   C - Cast                L - Lock                  R - Run
   E - Enter               L - Look                  S - Show 
 ESC - Cancel              N - New                   S - Steal
   F - Fight               M - Mix                   T - Talk
   G - Get                 O - Other                 U - Use
  
 Text Area
 ---------
You can see upto 7 items at one time; press the number of the item you want,
counting from top to bottom,left to right.

* If there are more than 7 items,the corner of the page is turned up in the
  lower right.Press [Space] to turn the page.

 Inventory
 ---------
Press the key indicated to display the iventory box you want.

  W - Weapons              R - Reagents
  A - Armour               T - Artifacts
  S - Spells               I - Items
  
 Combat  
 ------
To attack,press [Space].

After you select cast during combat,you're shown a list of abbreviated
offensive and defensive spells.To cast a spell,type the first letter of the
abbreviation.

* When you die,sometimes you need to press [Space] to reach the Game Over
  screen.

 Spell Mixing
 ------------
Press a key to select the reagent you want.

  B - Black Pearl          O - Eye of Owl 
  D - Dragons Drool        P - Peppermint Sprigs
  E - Phoenix Egg          R - Narcissus Root
  G - Glow Grass           S - Skunk Juice
  H - Rhino Horn           T - Scorpions Tail
  K - Kild Root            W - Wart Weed

 [Space] - Use next spellbook.

End.
