                             LAST NINJA III

Typed by SIDEWINDER of LSD.  Original supplied by PHIL.
NOTE: These are fron the C64 version, but should be almost identical to
the Amiga release version, as the current System 3 Ninja games have been
so far!


INTRODUCTION
     Rarely does a company make as dramatic an impact as did System 3
with the award winning games THE LAST NINJA and the LAST NINJA II.  This
software inovation proved to be a major advance in home computer
entertainment achieving critical acclaim from the media and game players
around the world.
     Now regard as a 'Licence within itself', this series of games
reaches an unequalled pinnacle of excellence with the arrival of NINJA
III.
     Seldom has a series of games won as many awards worldwide as THE
LAST NINJA.
     Never has such a series of gfames just gotr better and better.
     NINJA III is ready to explode onto your screen with the most
glorious display of graphics and animated fight sequence ever seen in
this type of game.  With pulsating sound and massive introduction
sequence, NINJA III displays a degree of excellence never before
experianced by even the most seasoned Ninja fans.
     As NINJA III is far more than a simple action game, we suggest that
you read the instructions carefully and spend some time becoming totally
familiar with the controls.
     We hope you enjoy our latest game.

THE STORY
     The Ninjitsu, or Ninja, had become the most feared warriors of their
day and were feared by even the most powerful Samurai.  Known as the
Mystic Shadow Warriors, they were the elite fighting force of the ninth
century feudal Japan.  Dedicated to fine tuning their bodies into killing
machines, their mastery of weapon craft, assassination, stealth and
invisibility led many to believe them to be invincible if not immortal.
     Centuries later and only Armakuni, the Last Ninja, remains.  Still
as proud as ever, still as valiant in battle, he strives to further
uphold the moral strengths of Good, against the persistant scourge of his
arch enemy Kunitoki's relentless spread of Evil.
     Kunitoki is the evil Shogun of the Ashikaga clan who has long envied
the powers of the Ninja and would do anything to acquire the Ninjitsu
knowledge.  To this end he has sworn an oath to their total destruction.
This oath has led the evil Shogun into many battles with the Last Ninja,
who himself has dedicated his very existance to avenging the mass
slaughter of the Ninja brotherhood, centuries ago, by the twisted Shogun.
Their clashes across the vortex of time and space were nothing short of
epic, their hatred for one another timeless.
     The struggle of Good versus Evil had taken Armakuni to the island of
Lin Fen, the shrine of the white Ninja, to halt the wrath of Kunitoki and
to protect the further teachings of the vital Koga scrolls.  Armakuni had
been victorious but not 100% decisive as Kunitoki slipped his grasp.
     Years later, Armakuni had been dragged across time to modern day New
York, as again Kunitoki's ideas of corruption looked set to threaten
modern day ideals.
     This was supposed to be their last battle, Armakuni's determination
had sworn to that, but yet again the Shogun had slipped away.
Humiliated, supposedly defeated in spirit and hopefully humbled to the
fact that Good will always purvey over Evil.
     The struggle in New York had left the Last Ninja battle-weary from
countless confrontations with Kunitoki's henchmen, distraught that his
age old adversary had again eluded him, but resolute that one day his
timeless mission would bear the fruits of his persistance.
     As time drifted by, the Ninja's role within his own society was of a
rather more tranquil existance in comparison to his earlier exploits, but
he knew the necessity of his work, the importance of again building a new
Ninja brotherhood from his personal knowledge and the mystical teachings
of the closely guarded Koga scrolls.  Armakuni felt comfortable once more
as the teacher and accepted his duties with great passion and commitment,
as he had prior to his historic battle in modern day New York.
     A stronger order of Ninja slowly began to take shape as masters from
the pre-New York era mingled with the young class of '91.  During a
strenuous training session, a strange feeling came over the class.  It
was as if time had abruptly stood still.  As Armakuni rose from his
meditating position a strange pulsating light enshrouded him.  The older
members of the class knew what was happening, they had seen it all before
and fervently tried to calm the younger class, to ensure them that their
master was safe, to educate them as to the role of spiritual Ninjitsu
masters who were again calling on Armakuni, the Last Ninja, for another
dangerous mission.
     The intensity of the light grew around Armakuni until all who were
witnessing the scene were forced to cover their eyes.  He knew what was
happening, he knew there was unfinished business dating back many
centuries.  To him it felt as though his gut was turning inside out, as a
deep determination coupled with his inner mystical energies began to take
over and prepare him for the inevitable battles that must lie ahead.  He
knows who the ancient masters want him to defeat, after all he has lived
for this day ever since his pride was dented by his arch enemy again
escaping his grasp in New York.  Relieved his masters had at last found
Kunitoki again, his only apprehension was the location.  Where would he
have to ply his trade?  What new time scale would he have to become
accustomed to?  How much more advanced would the new realm of Kunitoki's
henchmen be in battle?  And ultimately how strong had his deadly rival
been allowed to grow in the time lapsed since their last meeting?  No
doubt all these questions would be answered in time as slowly Armakuni
woke from the darkness of deep sleep.
     He recognised the location from earlier studies and heaved a great
sigh of expectation as he understood immediately where he had been sent
and indeed why?
     Armakuni was back at the very heart of Ninjitsu spiritualism.  He
had been brought to Tibet, the Tibetan mountains to be precise and the
location of his latest exploits were to be the Tibetan temples.  These
mystical Buddhist temples house the source of inner-power to the Ninja.
A temple is divided into 5 chambers, each depicting one of the elements
and all combining to provide the Ninja with the very heart of their power
and their mystical strength, so symbolic to the very existance of
Ninjitsu.  The five chamber elements are EARTH, WATER, WIND, FIRE, and
VOID.
     No one had entered the inner chambers of the temples before and so
there was no knowledge of what would greet any would-be explorer.  VOID
would be an unknown entity to a Ninja familiar only with the ways of old
and whose weaponry would seem somewhat primative to any 'Space-age
Assassin' who lurked within this futuristic chamber and who strove to
carry out the outlandish orders of their new dictator.  Weaponry is,
however, just a tool for the Ninjitsu strength.  Masters of many a move
the Last Ninja knows he is up to the task but knows not how long his task
will take.
     Armaknuki takes a moment to meditate but suddenly experiences a
strange and chilling sensation.  He already knew he would have to
confront kunitoki once again, but his force seemed so powerful this time,
more so than ever than before.  he had been allowed to grow in strength
for far too long, surely the elders should have found him earlier.
Armakuni did not need telling, the sinister truth of why Kunitoki was
here was all too apparent.  He was here to corrupt the mystical Buddhist
temples, to crush their inner power so symbolic to the strength of the
Last Ninja.
     Not able to defeat Armakuni in the past with mortal combat, the evil
Shogun has turned to the spiritual aspect of Ninjitsu to act out his
particular form of corruption.  All the learning Ninja brotherhood rely
on the Tibetan temples for spiritual guidance and strength, without this
they would be no more.
     Kunitoki has seized upon this opportunity to destroy the knowledge
he could never have and the enemy he could never defeat.

     Never was Armakuni's task more important...
     Never would the unacceptable result of failure be more damaging...

     It would seem that New York was just the beginning.
     Their distaste for each other has grown for centuries, but then...

     ...REAL HATRED IS TIMELESS


BASIC MOVEMENT
     To change the direction the Ninja is facing, roll the joystick
handle through all the positions until you are facing the direction you
want.

TO WALK FORWARDS              Push the joystick in the direction the
                              Ninja is facing.

TO WALK BACKWARDS             Pull the joystick in the opposite direction
                              to the one the Ninja is facing.

TO DRIFT ACROSS THE PATH      Push the joystick in the direction you want
                              him to veer (this applies to walking
                              forwards and backwards).

SPECIAL MOVEMENTS

TURNING THE NINJA             Roll the joystick through all the positions
                              until you are facing the direction you
                              want.

SOMERSAULT                    If the fire button is pressed while the
                              Ninja is moving, then he will somersault in
                              that direction.

PICK UP                       To pick up objects/weaponry the button must
                              be pressed and the joystick pulled
                              down-left or down-right (diagonal).

NOTE: This move is also used at certain points of the game for placing
objects in a desired order or position.


JOYSTICK CONTROLLED FIGHTING MOVEMENTS
To activate the fighting moves, the Ninja should be stationary and the
fire button pressed.

     UNARMED MOVES                           ARMED MOVES
 KICK     Down                      (Sword, Nunchakas and Staff)
 PUNCH    Up                                 STAB      Right
 DUCK     Up-left or Up-right               SLASH      Left
                                        HIGH STAB      Up
THROWING MOVES (Shiriken, etc.)              KICK      Down
 THROW    Right or Left                     PARRY      Up-left/Up-right

GENERAL TIPS
     The first aspects of the game you should master are the joystick
controls.  The highly interactive nature of the game is required because
of some of the complex moves the Ninja character has to perform.  A high
level of competence at the controls will enhance your game play
considerably.
     Because of the adventure elements our second suggestion is that you
should get into the habit of recording what happens on each screen.  This
will enable you to obtain higher scores with repeated play.
     The last point is, NEVER take anything for granted - some things are
not as they appear.  Be curious, nosey, etc. and examine everything.

PLAYING GUIDE TO LEVEL ONE
There are 3 weapons to be picked up this level.  The sword, shiriken
stars (5 in one go) and the Nunchakas, which have to be made.
     This is done by picking up wooden branches, which will become the
handles, and picking up a chain from the hanging flower baskets to link
the handles together.

 - First screen - pick up LEATHER GLOVE.
 - Outside a group of two huts, are ROOFTILERS NAILS.  Picking these up,
   combined with a glove, creates a CLIMBING GLOVE.
 - Select climbing glove and climb cliff on Gunpowder screen.
 - On next screen walk across to edge of building to pick up a GLASS
   LAMP.
 - Go back to Gunpowder screen and holding the lamp, pick up GUNPOWDER to
   create a  BOMB.
 - Go back to Upper Platform at the Rock screen and place the
   orb/gunpowder bomb beside a rock.  An explosion drops the rock to the
   lower platform.
 - Pick up SCROLL which is now accessible by the newly formed rock
   platform.
 - Find level Exit room and enter holding the Scroll.
 - Prepare to fight the lethal guardian Shogun.

NOTE: EXIT SCROLL has to be found to exit each level.  Extra lives are in
the form of potions on every level.

Finito.
