THE LEISURE SUIT LARRY SOLUTION
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This solve didn't get all the points, But it finishes the game.
	
  The 1st step is to enter the bar, go to the bathroom and read the walls 
several times until you get the password. Then go to the sink and get the 
ring. You can use the toilet if you want. Go to the bar and buy a whiskey.
Go to the drunk next to the bathroom wall and give him the whiskey. he'll
give you the remote control. Get the rose too. Go back into the bar and
knock on the big door.. when he asks you for the password.. tell him
"Ken sent me", Then enter. Turn on the T.V. with the remote. Keep changing
channels until you find a channel he likes.. he'll move from the stairs.
Climb up and voila! The prostitute. Don't hop into bed with her until you get
the rubber. You just need the candy on the bench. Get it. Go out the window,
and go to the fire-escape ladder. You'll fall into a dumpster. Search it and
get the hammer. Exit the dumpster and go left. Call a cab at the street.

  Now go to the casino and go through the lobby. Get the card in the ashtray. 
Now gamble a bit until you have about 250 dollars. Go outside. Sometime in the 
game when outside the casino, a guy in a barrel will come up and ask you to
buy an apple. Buy it. Call the cab.. tell him to go to the Store. Enter the
store and buy a rubber. Also get the cheap wine in the back.(Never enter the
cab with the wine.. the cabbie will get drunk and kill you) Pay for the wine
and exit.. wait for the russian looking guy to come from the left.(Ignore
the dog) When he comes, give him the wine.. not money. Once you have the knife
go right and show the pass to the Bouncer at the disco door. Go in and sit 
down at the table with the lady. Smile and give her the ring, the candy, and
the rose. Ask her to dance. When you finish off with the dancing ask her to   
marry you. She'll ask you for 100$. Give it to her and meet her at the marrage
chapel. It's east of the casino front. Enter and go up to the front. Type 
"marry", and you'll get married. Go up to the honeymoon suite.( fourth floor,
door with the heart.) Knock, and enter. She'll be on the bed, and "Not in the
Mood!?!" Turn on the radio and listen to it. You'll get a number to call to
get the wine delivered that she wants. Go to the casino and get some taxi fare
money. Go to the fone in front of the store, call the number and have them 
deliver it to the "honeymoon suite". If they say it probably won't show up,
you screwed up on the typing. Go back to the casino and go to the suite.
Be sure that you have the knife. Enter and pour the wine. Things will take 
they're course and you'll find yourself tied to the bed.( The Bitch! ) Use
the knife and free yourself. Get the rope and leave. Go to the casino again 
and using some saving, use the dollar and get about 50$. Once you have it, go
to the bar and Knock on the door again. Go up the stairs and screw her now 
that you have the rubber. Remove the rubber after you've used it. Go out the
window and this time go to the right of the balconey. Tie the rope to your-
self and tie it to the railing. Type "Go window" or something so your hanging
infront of the window on the right. Break the glass with the hammer. Get
the pills. Pull on the rope and untie yourself. Go down the fire escape and
call a cab again. Go to the casino and go to the eighth floor.. Talk to the
lady at the desk untill the game tells you that you'll need some medicine or
something. Give her the pills. She'll run off and leave the desk unguarded.
Push the button and enter the open doors on the right.
 
	FINALLY, THE FINISH...

Enter and go up and right. When you're in the room with the bed, open the 
closet door. Enter it and type, "look". Get the doll... then wait as you run
after it. When you're near the hottub, enter it. Look at the lady. Smile, and
give her the apple. Things will then run they're course, and Voila! Vous avez
finiz le adventure! (You have finished the adventure!)

Brought to you by ???
Remember: Do not support Custom BBS!
