
                 Typed by Flux/Crystal 5 June 1991 19:30:02

                               LIFE AND DEATH
                         OPERATING PROCEDURES MANUAL

MOVING AROUND THE HOSPITAL

 To move around the hospital, use your mouse. To enter or leave a room, click
on the door. to pick up a  clipboard,  click  on it. To put a clipboard down,
move the mouse icon off the clipboard and click. While viewing lessons in the
classroom, click on the chalkboard to ask  the  instructor to put up the next
lesson. To leave the hospital, exit through  the  doors at the far end of the
hall. Feel free to explore all of  the rooms and objects at Toolworks General
Hospital.
 When clicking, always  use  the  tip  (upper  left)  of  the  mouse arrow to
indicate where you want to go or  what  you  want  to pick up. The arrow will
turn into an hour glass when the program is busy.

SIGNING IN

 Before you can be assigned any patients,  you must inform the hospital staff
that you have arrived. Nurse Pierce  will  offer you the sign-in clipboard in
the main hall. Click on the clipboard and  you will be presented with a sign-
in sheet. If you are a returning doctor, just click on your name.
 Once you have signed in,  the  program  will  remember everything about you,
even if you leave the hospital and come back to play another time.

DIAGNOSING A PATIENT

 To diagnose  a  patient,  you  should  first  read  the  patient's  reported
symptoms. These symptoms can be found  on  the  clipboard  at the foot of the
patient's bed. Click on the clipboard  to  pick  it  up. To put the clipboard
down, move the icon off the clipboard and click.
 To preform a physical examination  of  the  patient,  click on the patient's
body. You will be  presented  with  a  close-up  of  the  torso. To palpate a
particular region, move the mouse to  the  area and click. Note the patient's
responses. To end a physical examination click on the bed covers.
 The patient's clipboard is also used to order a particular treatment or more
tests. Use your mouse to put a  check  mark  in the appropriate box. You must
put your initials in the space provided  in  order for the staff to carry out
your request. Remember to put the clipboard  down when you have finished with
it.

SELECTING THE OPERATING TEAM

 The personal records  can  be  found  in  the  Staff  Room.  To  select your
operating team, click on the folder that the personal nurse offers you. There
are six available staff members, two of  whom may be chosen for the operating
team. To select a staff member, put  a  check  mark  in the box next to their
name. To get more detailed  information  on  a  staff  member, click near the
staff members name (but not in the check box). You will be presented with the
staff members photo and profile.

MEDICAL SCHOOL

 Whenever the chief of surgery  feels  that  you  need schooling, you will be
instructed to report to the medical  school.  Most  of the lessons in medical
school are written on the  chalkboard.  The  classroom is also outfitted with
audio-visual equipment that  will  sometimes  be  used  after an unsuccessful
surgery.

ANSWERING A PAGE (Copy Protection)

 When Nurse Pierce gives you a message that someone has called, it is in your
best interest to return the call. Use the beeper that came with your Life and
Death package to determine the number where  they can be reached. Line up the
person's name (eg. Morgan) and where they  called from (eg. Pathology) in the
top beeper window.  The  correct  phone  number  is  contained  in the window
corresponding to the phone line used for  the  call. Pick up the phone on the
main desk and dial this  number.  When  dialing  the  phone, you may push the
phone buttons by clicking the mouse button over the phone number image.

SURGERY

 When you first start surgery, the mouse icon will be in the shape of a hand.
Click on an instrument to pick it up.  Use  the tip of the finger to point to
what you want to pick up.  The  icon  will  change to a representation of the
instrument you are  currently  holding.  To  put  an  instrument  down, click
anywhere on the operating tray. To  use  an  instrument, move the icon to the
appropriate place and  click.  For  some  instruments,  such  as the scalpel,
sponge, suction and antiseptic, you must click and drag the mouse to use them
properly.
 To open a drawer, first put  down  any  instrument  you might be holding and
click on the drawer handle. Use the same procedure to close the drawer.
 When removing forceps from the  patient's  body,  line  up the hand with the
forceps handle.
 To retract a  tissue  layer,  pick  up  the  retractor  and  click  near the
incision. To close a tissue layer,  click  on  the  right mouse button on the
layer to be closed.
 While in surgery, the following keys are active:
        S       Sound on/off.
        P       Pauses the game. To resume, press any key.

HOSPITAL POLICIES AND GUIDELINES

 The Hospital Policies and Guidelines  clipboard  is  used  to set the Life &
Death game parameters. To have  this  clipboard  handed  to you, click on any
intercom.
 To select or unselect an  option  on  the  Policies clipboard, place a check
mark (or remove the check mark) in  the  appropriate box by clicking with the
mouse.
 "Quiet hours in effect"  means  that  the  sound  will  be  turned off while
playing the game.
 "Patients may speak"  means  that  the  digitized  patients'  voices will be
turned on. Patients may not speak while quiet hours are in effect.
 There are three play levels available: Novice, Intermediate and Advanced.
 If you have not yet signed  in,  the  bottom  of the Policies clipboard will
contain an option called "Remove surgeon  from  sign up". To remove a doctors
name from the sign-up list, choose this  option. The program will display the
sign-up clipboard, at which  time  you  may  choose  a  surgeon  to remove by
clicking his or her name. Before  the  name  is actually deleted, you will be
asked to confirm the surgeon's removal by clicking the appropriate box.

NOTE: Each new surgeon starts at the  novice  level. If you would like a more
challenging game, choose the intermediate or advanced play level. At the more
difficult levels, you will encounter bleeders  and abnormal EKG patterns more
often. The comments by the staff members will be less helpful. Also, you will
need to be more precise in  placing  clamps,  using the cauterizer and making
incisions.
 For those  surgeons  who  desire  a  challenge  of  nighmarish  proportions,
"Nightmare Mode" is available. Click the appropriate box.
