                         TRILOGY  PRESENTS
                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
                  Lords of the Rising Sun Documents
                    Typed by Wai Chan of Trilogy

                     CALL OUR HQ AT 305-558-9137
           ALSO CALL WOW HQ AT 718-234-3659 AND 718-259-9661 

     Lords of the Rising Sun is based on the Gempei War in 12th century Japan.
The object of the game is to capture all the castles and become Shogun. You
cannot capture the Imperial Palace at Kyoto, nor any of the monasteries.

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS:
* Amiga 500, 1000, or 2000
* 1 or 2 disk drives
* Mouse

BACKUP COPIES
Make a Backup of Reel 2. Play with copy and store the original in a safe
place.

CAUTION: Do not write protect Reel 2; games are saved to thie disk. If the
disk is write protected when you try to save a game, th game you're saving
will be lost!

HARD DISK INSTALLATION
You can install Lords of the Rising Sun on your hard disk. There is a file,
STARTLORDS, in the S directory on Reel 1 that explains the procedure.

GETTING STARTED
Turn on oyur computer and monitor. At the Workbench prompt, insert Reel 1
into Drive 0 and Reel 2 into Drive 1 (it you have only oe drive, wait for
the prompt to insert Reel 2). The lenght of time it takes to load Lords of
the Rising Sun depends on the amount of memory in your computer. The more
memory you have, the longer the loading time. This is because the game takes
advantage of larger amounts of memory, effectively creating a RAM disk.

Bypass the title by pressing the left mouse button. This takes you to the
Player Selection Screen. This screen shows you the faces of the two Minamoto
Brothers. Yoritomo is on the left and Yoshitsune is on the right. Slide the
mouse left to highlight Yoritomo's name, right to highlight Yoshitsune's
name. Once the name of the brother you want to become is hightlighted, press
the left mouse button to select him.

NOTE: To play a strictly strategic game, select Yoshitsune. Since he is the
better warrior, you won't be required to participate in the arcade sequences
(although you may do so if you wish).

The game takes you to the "front yard" of your home castle. The cursor is in
the shape of a folded war fan. Move the cursor over the banner at the left
of the screen and your options appear at the bottom od the screen (this
banner will be your menu throughout the game). Press the left mouse button
when you see the option you want to select. If this is your first time to
play Lords of the Rising Sun, select ENTER HOME.

NOTE: Any time you see the message TOUCH SWORD HILT TO CONTINUE, press
either mouse button.

Inside your home castle is a council room. At the left of the room is your
banner. The five banners on the center wall are replicas of the banners of
the generals in the war. The first banner on the left is your brother's
banner. Next to that is the Taira banner. The other three banners represent
the Ronin.

A seppuku (suicide) sword is to your left, under the banners, and threee
shiriken (throwing stars) are on the table beside you. When you move the
cursor over the sword, you have the option to COMMIT SEPPUKU. The shiriken
represent the number of ninja assassins you have available for hire. Move
the cursor over one of the banners on the wall to select an enemy to
assassinate.

NOTE: Assassination is not an honorable act; if it fails, your only recourse
is seppuku. The more experienced a general you are, the more likely you will
suceed at eliminating your enemies this way.

When you exit your home castle and PREPARE TO MARCH, you go to the Map
Screen.

MAP SCREEN
The Map Screen displays a map of 12th century Japan (similar to the map at
the center of your manual). The cursor is in the shape of a Samurai sword.
On the map are castles, monasteries, towns, ports, and movable armies.

At the bottom of the Map Screen is a window that displays game messages that
relate to your generals. When a message concerning an encounter appears, you
have approximately the seconds to get involved; otherwise, the game
continues without your intervention (see Encounter Screen). The exception to
this is your character (Yoritomo or Yoshitsune); he won't make any decision
without your intervention. When your charcter has an encounter, you
automatically go to the Encounter Screen.

The messages are color-coded to help you keep track of whether or not
they're strategically important to you.

 WHITE indicates arrival messages (YORITOMO ARRIVES AT EDO).

 YELLOW informs you of encounters (YOSHITSUNE ENCOUNTER).

 RED lets you know a conflict is underway (OSAKA BESEIGED).

 ORANGE indicates a city or castle has been taken by one of your generals
 (MIURA TAKES OSAKA)
 BLUE are messages of death or defeat (MORI HAS BEEN KILLED).

 GREEN lets you know about the victories (NORIYORI VICTORIOUS).

 PURPLE describes action by general outside of your control (SATSUMA FORMS
 ARMY).

Click and hold on a crane's head (on either side of the Message Window) to
scroll the map left or right. While the screen is scrolling , all movement
and timne passage on the map is halted. Keep an eye on the activity at the
left end of the map, since that is the territory of Taira Clan.

Time is in motion only when you're in the Map Screen. As the seasons change
, so does the secenery (on the map and in the the Encounter Screens).

KEYBOARD COMMANDS
 There are three keyboard commands available from the Map Screens.

Up and Down arrow keys can be used to center the map on the screen if it
isn't centerd.

S - This forces a summer display on the map, reguardless of the season of
the year. The seasons still change, but you won't see the changes on the
map. Use this if you perfer the visual effect of the summer map over the
seasonally changing map. Press S again to return to normally changing
seasons.

A - This speeds up the movement of time on the Map Screen. Press A again to
go back to normal time. Normal time is automatically resumed whenever a
message appears in the Message Window.

ESC - This pauses the game and brings up an option screen with five
selections.

PRESERVE HISTORY - Click on this to save a game in progress to Reel 2. You
must reboot to play again.
CONTINUE THE FIGHT - Click on this selection to resume gameplay.
LAUNCH A REBELLION - Click on this to start a new game. If you make this
selection , you can't change your mind and load a previously-saved game
without rebooting.
RESTORE HISTORY - This selection is only available when you first boot the
game and a game is saved on Reel 2. Click on this to reload the saved game
(the game is reoved from Reel 2 when you load it, so be sure to save
again before you quit playing).
END THE REBELLION - Click on this to quit the game.

BANNERS
Each army is represented by a general carrying a banner. YThe colors on the
banners illustrate the loyalties of the generals. Black banners with white
markings are Yoritomo's men (Black Minamoto); red banners are Taira
Clansmen; and grey banners are Ronin (independent generals who owe
allegiance to no one). A gold top on a banner indicates Yoritomo,
Yoshitsune, or the Taira leader.

The dots on the Ronin generals' banners indictaes the armies thy are
friendly toward. Black dots indicate Yoritomo's friends; white dots
demonstrate leanings toward Yoshitsune; and re dots show a Taira
affiliation.

STARTING POSITONS FOR ALL THE ARMIES
The generals take up their positions at the beginning of each new game as
indicated below.

   BLACK MINAMOTO                      BLACK RONIN
 Yoritomo at Kamakura                Shizuka at Kagoshima
 Miura at Mito                       Hojo at Gifu
 Yoshinaka at Maebashi          

   WHITE MINAMOTO                      WHITE RONIN
 Yoshitsune at Sendai                Fujiwara at Moriaka
 Satake at Akita                     Tsunemori at Tokushima
 Noriyori at Yonezawa

   RED TAIRA                           RED RONIN
 Kiyomori at Osaka                   Ashikaga at Hiroshima
 Munemori at Nagoya                  Takeda at Kumamoto
 Mori at Shimonoseki
 Tomomori at Himeji
 Shigehira at Matsue
 Tandanori at Okayama
 Shigemori at Kochi

GATHER INFORMATION
Place the cursor over a location or general and press the right mouse button
. An information Box pops up.
The left of the Box shows the selcted area of the map. The right od the box
shows the name of the castle, town, monastery, or general in that area.
Between tha bars is a picture of the castle, town, monastery, or general. A
flag above the picture lets you see whether Yoritomo, Yoshitsune, the Taira,
or the Ronins owns the loaction or commands the army. The bars show the
strength (health and supplies) and troop quantity for the indicated general
or location.

Place the cursor over the name in the right of the box and press the left
mouse button to see if mpre than person is in a location. Keep clicking
until you see all the information. If you want to go back to the map
activity, move the cursor off the box and press the left mouse button.

You may participate directly in any one of your generals' activities.
To get involved in an encounter or conduct a troop review, se;ect one of
your generals. When the information Box pops up, click on the general's
picture (between the MEN and STRENGTH bars) to see the Encounter Screen.

MOVEMENT
To move an army under your control, place the cursor over its general and
press the left mouse button. Hold the button down, drag the general to the
desired location, then release the button. You must move your general along
a road to a location adjacent to his current position. If the general is at
a location that has a port, you can move him to other port locations. When
a general goes to sea, his banner changes to a sail and you see him
traveling by boat. Once a man is on the road or on the sea, you can't change
his direction; his course is set.

You don't have to wait for one of your generals to finish his move before
moving another man. You can have all your generals on the road at once,
if you like. If you have two generals in one location and you want to move a
particular one, select the information Box. Click on the generals' names
until you see the one you want to move. Then, move the cursor to the general
and move him; only the general you selected in the information Box will
move.
Strength is depleted as you travel. Water travel is alot faster than land
travel, so travel by water whenever possible.

ENCOUNTER SCREEN
Messages in the Message Window and flashing banners on the map indicate
encounters. An encounter in this instance can be abything from simply
greeting another general to engaging in battle.

If more than one of your generals is in the same location, all their forces
will be combined in the ensuing encounter. Remember, there is safety in
numbers. Use the information Box to select the general you wish to be the
leader.

From this screen you can make several strategic decisions, depending on the
circumstances. The cursor is in the shape of a folded war fan. Move the
cursor over the banner at the left of the screen, and text describing your
options appears at the bottom of the screen. Press the left mouse button
when you see the action you want to perform.

Not all the Encounter Screen selections described are available in every
situation. The selections you have depend on the circumstances of the
encounter.

REVIEW TROOPS
This selection lets you get a visual image of your troops; the number of
soldiers onscreen is the actual number of soldiers in your army. If there
are 90 soldiers onscreen, your army numbers 90 or more.

Move the cursor to a point just beneath the general's figure, and a message
at the bottom of the screen says TROOP STRENGTH. Press the left mouse button
and watch the general's arm; he waves it from one to five times to indicate
the strength of your troop (one is low, five is high).

If more than one general is in the area, you can select NEXT GENERAL to
review all your troops in the vicinity. You can also TRANSFER SKILLS.

TRANSFER SKILLS lets you take sword, archery, and sieging skills from one
general and give them to another. When you select this option, two generals'
names appear at the top of the screen, and both their armies are displayed.
If more than two generals are in the area, you can select NEXT GENERATION
and transfer skills between three or more of your men.

To make the transfer, move the cursor to a skill on the banner of the
general you want take skills from, and click either mouse button. Each time
you click, one skill point is transferred  to the opposite general. The
level of skills you can give a general is limited by the level of the most
highly-skilled general general involved in the in transfer.

EXAMPLE: You are transferring sword skills from Miura to Yoritomo. Yoritomo
has a level of two and Miura has a level of four. You can only transfer two
skill points from Miura to Yoritomo, giving him a level of four. You can't
give Yoritomo five skill points, since your highest-skilled general (Miura)
only has four to start with.

Since the skills of the general leading a battle or siege are the vital ones
to the sucess of the endeavor, transferring skills is a good way to ensure
that your top general has every advantage. You can also use this option when
one of your subordinate generals is gaining more skill than you and you fear
he may be ready to leave your service and become a Ronin.

NOTE: You can't transfer Imperial Regalia from one general to another.

FORM ALLIANCE
This selectionlets you attempt to make an ally of an encountered general.
If he accepts, his banner colors change to yours and he is under your
command. He may refuse, with or without hostility.

DEMAND SURRENDER
When you approach an occupied castle, you can demand a surrender. If your
forces appear appear fearsome enough, you may suceed in this effort.

NOTE: Taira castles never surrender.

ENGAGE IN BATTLE
Make this selection and a view of the battlefield appears onscreen. Your
troops are arrayed against the enemy; the generals are on horseback. To
start the battle, click once on your general (if you have good archery
skills) or move your troops into position.

The cursor is in the shape of an arrow; this controls your archers. Press
the left mouse button to draw the archers toward the cursor; press the right
button to push them away from it. Press both mouse buttons together and the
cursor changes to a sword; now you can control the swordsmen with the left
and right mouse buttons.

If the battle looks grim, you can retreat. To do this, click on your
general. Retreating lowers leadership ability.

If your opponent decides to retreat, you win the battle. The enemy general
blows this battle horn to call his troops. If you wish to pursue them, click
on the enemy general.

HORSEBACK PURSUIT As you gallop along on your horse, carefully avoiding
rocks, bushes, and trees, you overtake the fleeing enemy foot-soldiers. Press
the right mouse button to hack soldiers to your right and the left button to
slash to the left. You can kill soldiers by running over them with your
horse, but the horse may get spooked and throw you. If you do away with
enough foot-soldiers, you catch up with the general himself. Kill him with
your great honor, or lose dignity and leadership ability (as well as risking
great injury) by running him down with your horse.

PREPARE TO MARCH
This selection mobilizes your troops and takes you back to the Map Screen.

CONTINUE MARCH
This selection takes you back to the Map Screen, unless you encountered a 
surly general who wants to fight. In that case, you can't leave until you do
battle with him.

TAKE CITY
This selection lets you muster your troops and forcibly take over a city.

SEIGE CASTLE
This selection gives you the chance to break through a castle's defenses and
takeit over. You begin at the gates of the castle and have to hack your way
through the heavy wooden doors with your sword. The left mouse button
controls swordplay and the right button lets you shoot arrows. The speed of
the sun at the top of the screen is the key to how much time you have to
succeed. Each time you're hit by an enemy sword or shot by an enemy arrow,
the sun moves more quickly. The sun will rise, then set. When the sun
finally sets, your time is up. The more men in your army, the more time you
have to take over the castle.

To take the castle, invade the Keep and eliminate the main guard (look for a
helmet with a yellow symbol). The path to the Keep is identified by the gray
stones that outline it.

Push the mouse to move north, south, east, or west (you cannot move
diagonally). You only need to press once to walk continuosly in the selected
direction. To change directions, move the mouse in the direction you want to
go to. To stop, nudge the mouse in the opposite direction to the one you're
heading. Keep mouse movements very small.

Stay out of the water or you will lose all your siege time and your army
will suffer heavy casualties as a result. Only hack through wooden doors
listen to the sounds your sword makes as you chop; if it sounds like metal
on metal, you can't get through. Some of the more difficult castles may have
secret passages. Bold experimentation is the only way to discover these
places.

One of the Taira castles harbors a kidnapped Princess (the emperor's
daughter). A message lets you know if you're sieging the castle where she is
imprisoned. If you want to rescue her, find her before you invade the Keep,
or the Taira will move her to another location. They will also move her if
you let her get injured in the escape attempt.

NOTE: If Yoshitsune is your character, you must play the siege interactively
in order to rescue the Princess.

RESUPPLYING
As troops travel over the map, strength is depleted. In battle, soldiers are
often lost. Strength can be replenished at friendly castles, monasteries, and
towns. Men can be acquired only at castles flying your banner. To resupply,
let your general rest awhile at the selected location.

BESIEGED
When your castle is beseiged, you stand in a window and shoot arrows at the
invaders. A yellow dot gives you a focus point for yor aim. Hold down the
left mouse button to fit an arrow to your bow; release the button to fire
the arrow. The number of enemy soldiers you kill this way reduces the number
your samurai warriors have to defeat in the battle going on (out of your
view) in the courtyard below.

NINJA ATTACK
Be on the alert for attacks by ninja assassins. Your enemies may hire these
killers to sneak up on you when you least expect it. Control your sword with
mouse to block the ninja's shiriken attack.

IMPERIAL REGALIA
Possession of any of these four royal items increases your leadership
ability. The Shrine of Hachiman is in Kamakura (Yoritomo always begins the
game with this item in his possession, since Kamakura is his home castle).
You have to search for the Sacred Scroll, the Sacred Sword, and the
Princess.

SEPPUKU
This is the honorable way to lose the war. If you know there is no hope, you
can retire to your home castle and end it all.

If a ninja assassin you hired is caught, he may "squeal," forcing you to
commit seppuku to save your honor. In this case, the suicide is automatic
you can't go home.

SKILLS & RATINGS
High skill levels improve your performance in several areas. But, your
challenges are tougher when your skills are higher. Skill levels also affect
your ratings at the end of the game.

Levels are numbered from 0 to 5 and are illustrated on your generals'
banners.

SWORD SKILLS - Better sword skills improve your army's swordfighting ability
in battle. Increase or decrease your sword skills in the Horseback Pursuit.

ARCHERY SKILLS - Better archery skills improve your archer's performance in
battle. Increase or decrease your archery skills in the Besieged sequence.

SIEGING SKILLS - Better sieging abilities improve your ability to take over
towns and castles. Increase or decrease sieging skills by sieging castles.

LEADERSHIP SKILLS - Better leadership abilities improve your abilities to
lead armies in battle and to amke alliances. Increase or decrease leadership
skills in battle.

ENDING THE GAME
If you capture all 19 castles, you win the game. If you die, you lose the
game. Either way, you will see a screen showing your rating and depictions
of the battles you fought.

There are 25 possible ratings; they depend on the levels of battle skills
and leadership abilities that you built up during the game, as well as how
many pieces of the Imperial Regalia you collected. Your rating is shown as
one of five symbols.

                        PEASANT
                        RECRUIT
                        SOLDIER
                        GENERAL
                        MASTER

The color the symbol appers in signifies the level of your title. The
levels, from lowest to highest, are: Blue, Purple, Red, Silver (Gray), Gold
(Yellow).

MOUSE COMMANDS
Below is a quick reference to using the mouse when playing Lords of the
Rising Sun.

MAP

Left button on cranes' heads: Scroll left or right

Left button on your army: Give orders to move

Right button on your army/castle: Bring up Information Box

Left button on your general in Information Box: Participate as the general

Left button on names in Information Box: Changes names in window

BAMBOO TEXT MESSAGE

Either button: Continue

REVIEW TROOPS

Left button: Choose an option

IN YOUR HOME CASTLE

Left button: Choose an option

HORSEBACK PURSUIT

Left button: Swing sword to left side

Right button: Swing sword to right side

BESIEGED

Left button: Press and hold to load arrow; release button to fire

SIEGE

Left button: Swing sword

Right button: Shoot arrow

NINJA ATTACK

Left button: ???

BATTLE

Left button: Attract men toward the cursor

Right button: Repel men from the cursor

Both buttons together: Alternate between archer and samurai cursor

Left button on general: First horn--attack; second horn--retreat

Left button on enemy general: After he calls retreat, follow on horseback

OPTION SCREEN

Left button: Choose option

Ok you all this is the whole Player's guide to Lords of the Rising Sun!
It took me a long time to type it up so anyone who takes my name (Wai Chan)
off of this doc. will feel the wraith of me!! Also I would like to greet the
following friends of mine's: The Guardian, Mr.Unique, Terramax, Rokman, The
Young One, Puppet Master, The Agnostic, Waremonger, Bigfoot, The Ace,
Mixo-Plex, Night Raven, Gigolo, Molasar, Prince of Darkness, The Jester,
Speedy Dennis, The Amigist and to all I forgot too!!!

Later you all- Wai Chan/Trilogy



