                    SKID ROW - AMIGA'S LEADING FORCE

                               presents
                              
                               MAVERICK

What to do?  If the copier programmers couldn't write copiers to sense
and copy a particular protection scheme then only one solution remained.
Break the protection check code.  It was early in this stage that Kracker
Jax was born.  Kracker Jax allowed the user to simply make a fast copy
of the protected program and then run a custom parameter over that copy
to produce not only a copy of that protected program, but a copy devoid
of protection in most cases.  The revolution had begun.  Parameters
proved to be the most effective way to copy a protected program.
Protection schemes that no nybbler could touch could easily be archived
by the press of a key.  This went on for a couple of years, and again
the inevitable happened.  Parameter-proof protection.  How, you ask?
Read on.

Today's protection is made up of three classes of difficulty. 1. A few
programs are still released using archaic protection that most modern
nybblers can duplicate.  Why bother protecting?!  2. Many are still
archivable using either a nybbler or fast copier in conjunction with
a parameter.  3. Finally, more and more programs are showing up with
data written in formats that protects every byte of data on the disk.
If the data can't be written out, then a parameter is useless.  The
Bull's Eye was our first effort at this third level of copy protection.
Soon after, the Shotgun II was developed to automate the prinicpals
set forth in The Bull's Eye.  These two programs have set the standard
which imitators have been trying unsuccessfully to duplicate.  The
revolution started by Kracker Jax has paved the way for the Maverick,
the next step in an evolutionary process.<>

Those of you who have been supporting us over the years will recognize
the above paragraphs as the introduction to Maverick for the Commodore
64.  "So what" you say, "this is an Amiga product".  Well, as a matter
of fact, the methods used to copy protect Amiga programs are VERY
SIMILAR.  Remember, just as the hardware evolved from Commodore 64 to
Amiga, so have the programmers and the protection schemes that they use.

Rudimentary Amiga protection such as DOS Error checks and Index Sync
format have given way to the familiar signature tracks, long tracks,
and custom formats.  Our methods to defeat these schemes will be
our customary methods.  Experienced computer users learned long ago
that backup products that promise to be 100% effective are nothing more
than false promises shrouded by ambiguous sales pitches.  Nothing, not
even Maverick itself, will back up everything.  We will approach Amiga
copy protection just as we did Commodore 64/128 copy protection - with
long hours and hard work.  This results in the creation of (patch)
parameters and custom copiers that work and work well.  These will be
offered in upgrades on a timely basis.  See the Upgrades section in this
manual for more info.

PAGE [3]


PARAMETERS?  LONG TRACKS?  CUSTOM COPIERS?

Copy protection has come a long way from the days when a "do it all"
nybbler could either copy all protection on the market -- or could be
programmed to do so.  Today's copy protection usually demands a tool we
call a parameter.  "What is a parameter?"  you ask.  For our purposes, a
parameter is a program written by us that addresses the copy protection
of a specific title.  Thus, even though a parameter may work in many
different ways, the results will be similar.

Signature Tracks: Many times, copy protection is made up of two special
routines working together.  The actual physical protection placed on the
diskette by the duplicator, and the routine written by the programmer
to check that physical protection.  In order to copy a signature track
which contains only protection data and still have a WORKING backup, we
must 1> duplicate the physical protection or 2> rewrite the protection
check routine to allow the program to pass protection checks whether the
physical protection is on the backup or not.

De-programming the protection check routine is, in our opinion the most
effective method and will be used whenever possible.  We examine the
original protection checks written by the software programmer, and
disable them by creating a parameter designed to re-write the original
code by writing what we call a "patch" to a backup of the original.  We
MUST assume that the software program you own is EXACTLY like ours.
If you program is different in any way, it will be sensed and the backup
attempt will fail.  We will inform you during th backup attempt if this
occurs.

Many of our parameters have been programmed to check for and work
effectively on several different protection versions of the same
program, although the majority of programs today use only one protection
scheme.  If you have an unmodified ORIGINAL disk and encounter a
"Version Failure" message during your backup attempt, you may send us
that ORIGINAL disk, a blank disk, and $3.50 for S & H, and we will
attempt to back it up for you.  We'll try to include the parameter we
create on your next upgrade.

Whenever possible, our parameters will create a "broken" backup -- one
that is devoid of all copy protection.  Once the copy protection on a
backup has been defeated or "broken", any whole disk copier will
archive that backup.

PAGE [4]


Custom Formats:  When a program (in whole or part) has been written out
to a non-standard format, and program data is drawn from that format,
more than a "patch" parameter is required.  We must then write a
special copier to duplicate the unique format of THAT particular disk.
This results in what we will refer to as a custom copier.  A custom
copier is created to reproduce a specific piece of software and will
probably have no other purpose in life.  One of the most popular
custom formats is referred to as a long track.  A long track is any
track that exceeds (by a significant amount) the normal number of
bytes written to that track at normal speed (300 RPM).  Reliable
duplication of a long track requires a disk drive speed control device
to slow the drive during the write pass.  We expect to have this option
available in the very near future and will keep you informed.

Documentation Protection:  As our Commodore customers have learned in
the past, we are a company with a conscience and a sense of
responsibility.  We are not only dedicated to you, our valuable
customers, but also to the Amiga programming community.  We are aware
of your legitimate need to obtain backups of your valuable software and,
to that end, have programmed Maverick to provide you with the method
to do so.  Benign protection (such as documentation protection) is, in
our opinion, one of the few ways that programmers and publishers can
fairly protect themselves from casual piracy.  For this reason, we do
not remove documentation protection from otherwise un-protected
programs currently offered on the market.  We will, however, deprotect
documentation protected titles that have been discontinued by the
manufacturer.  We know that those of you who support the Amiga market
by purchasing your software will understand and appreciate our
intentions.

                            SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

Maverick will operate properly on the Amiga 500 or 2000 series.  Although
we recommend that Maverick be used with Kickstart v1.3, it should function
properly with v1.2.  Maverick v1 supports two 3.5" Amiga compatible disk
drives in the copy process.  Although Maverick works with only 512K, we
do recommend up to 1.5 megs, as RAM is used whenever applicable.

                              PACKAGE CONTENTS

Your original Maverick master (not upgrade) package should contain
the following items, 1> A Maverick v1 owner's manual.  2> The Maverick
3.5" program disk.  3> The blue Maverick subscription form.  4> The
Maverick REGISTRATION CARD.  Take time right now to fill out the
REGISTRATION CARD and send it in before you lose it.  THIS IS OF THE
UTMOST IMPORTANCE!  All owner support services are tied into the
registration card.  Sending the card in immediately is your key to the
ownership rights you deserve.

PAGE [5]


                            UPGRADES & SUPPORT

THANK YOU for you purchase.  Let's begin by saying that Maverick itself
is not copy protected.  It is capable of archiving itself with its own
fast data copier -- HyperCopy.  By purchasing Maverick, you are
supporting our efforts to support you, which has always been our
highest priority.

Ownership of Maverick entitles the owner to one of two levels of support.
Both levels REQUIRE you to FILL OUT THE MAVERICK REGISTRATION CARD, which
is the 3 x 5 postcard, and send it to Software Support International.
Whoever's name (must be an individual - not a User's Group, company or
school) is on the registration card when we receive it is the PERMANENT
REGISTERED OWNER of that copy of Maverick.  He is entitled to participate
at whichever level of support he desires.  The program may be sold to
another individual, but the registration may not be transferred.  Again,
SEND US THE Maverick REGISTRATION CARD as soon as possible to avoid loss.
We will notify you by mail as soon as we receive it, confirming your
registration.

When you send in your Registration Card, you automatically receive Level
One status.  This allows you to buy new program updates to Maverick
(which will include new utilities and parameters) at the reduced price
of $20.00 plus shipping and handling.  These discounted upgrades are
offered only through Software Support International, and again, ONLY
to registered owners.  These new releases will be available to you
approximately every three months.  Level one users are encouraged to
exercise their right to call the customer support line if they
experience a problem, have any questions, and especially suggestions.
We do have a knowledgeable staff on hand that has been trained to assist
you.  If you've purchased Maverick and you're a Registered Owner, you're
supporting us - and we'll be happy to support you!

If you'd like to automatically receive the newest versions of Maverick
as soon as they're available, Level Two status is for you.  There is
NO ADDITIONAL CHARGE for this special subscription service - just fill
in and send us the blue Maverick Subscription Order Form, which you'll
find in your Maverick package.  We can only accept subscriptions from
those REGISTERED OWNERS who allow us to bill their credit card
(Master Card, Visa, and Discover only please) at the same time of
shipping.  Sorry, but our Subscription Service is not setup to
accomodate either pre-payments or COD's.  To cancel a subscription,
the user need only call or write to us requesting cancellation, which
will place them back into Level One status.  There is no charge for this.

PAGE [6]


                            GETTING STARTED

Because of the memory requirements of Maverick, we recommend that you
simply boot Maverick by inserting the disk in the Amiga internal drive
and powering up.  Maverick will autoboot to the main Command Screen.

                        HARD DRIVE INSTALLATION

Many of you will be happy to know that Maverick will easy install and
operate from your hard drive.  Installation is virtually auto-driven
by a utility found in the Expansion Module called MaverickHDInstall.
Refer to the Expansion Module section elsewhere in this manual for
more details.

                        COMMAND SCREEN OVERVIEW

The Maverick Command Screen has been designed to allow immediate access
to both novice and expert users alike.  All of Maverick's auto-
functions are accessible through this initial screen and require just
a simple click or two of your LEFT mouse button to copy most titles.
Experienced users and seasoned hackers will enjoy the power of Maverick's
programmable copier which is reached through the User Control Center.
From the top of the screen your choices are:

List Window : This window is used to display selection lists (ALWAYS
     loaded from disk, not memory resident) from the HyperCopy,
     Parameters, OverRide, and Expansion functions.

Search : This button allows the user to search the list currently
     displayed in the List Window for a pattern match of up to
     four characters.  Simply click the Search button ON (turns RED)
     and input up to four characters from the keyboard followed by a
     RETURN.  The match will either be displayed or the Selection Not
     Found message will appear at the bottom of the screen.  You may
     use the DELETE key to clear the Search Box and start over.

Up & Down Arrows : Click these to scroll up or down through the
     selections currently displayed in the List Window.

Do : The Do button serves two functions.
     1. Using the LEFT mouse button, click the Do button to activate
     (execute) the selection in the center of the List Window.

PAGE [7]


     2. Using the RIGHT mouse button, click the Do button to send the
     list currently displayed in the List Window to your printer.
     Please note that your printer must be previously configured through
     the Amiga preferences program as documented in your Amiga owners
     manual.

Attention : Using the following three options require Maverick to be
configured for your particular system.  See Configure Maverick
documentation within the INFO button documentation located below in this
section.

The following three buttons work in a similar manner and may be
considered list filter buttons.  All three may be clicked ON or OFF
individually or simultaneously.  So to see a listing of all available
titles, just click ON all three buttons at once.  The titles listed
represent programs that we KNOW Maverick will copy - however, Maverick
is capable of copying many other titles not listed here.  As we inspect
more titles, they will be added to the appropriate button in future
versions.

To copy a selection, use the Up/Down buttons to center the desired
title in the List Window and click Do.  At this point you will be
presented with a new Copy In Progress Screen (see next section).
Follow on-screen prompts when using default settings.

HyperCopy : This selection displays in Light Blue, those titles which
    we found to be non copy-protected.  This means no PHYSICAL copy
    protection.  This includes those titles using document protection
    that are currently sold on the market.  No modifications or "patches"
    are written to these titles.

Parameters : This selection displays in White, those copy protected titles
    for which we have either written "patches" which generally deprotect
    the title or custom copiers to copy non standard data.

OverRide : This selection displays in Yellow, those copy protected
    titles for which we have written parameters allowing a deprotected
    copy that may be installed on your HARD DRIVE or run from most
    AmigaDOS storage devices such as RAM:, VD0 or 3.5" floppy.  Due to
    the method by which we deprotect some of the titles contained in the
    OverRide List, we will have to reboot your computer at the end of the
    deprotection process.  We will inform you with prompts when this
    becomes necessary.

    Also, some programs that refuse to operate properly from your hard
    drive will require some additional setup.  This may take one or both
    of the following procedures to accomplish.

PAGE [8]

    
    1. A file may be written to the backup named "ExecuteMe".  If upon
    inspection of your backup directory, the ExecuteMe file is found,
    you will be required to edit this file using a word processor or
    text editor.  Within this file you must change "DIRNAME" to the
    directory path which you plan to copy the backup.  For those of you
    that are unsure of the copy floppy to hard drive command, the
    following example may help.  From the CLI type COPY DRIVENAME DIRNAME
    ALL.  Example: COPY DF0: DH0:MYDIR ALL.  Where DF0: = Floppy Device
    Number, DH0: = Hard Drive Device Number and MYDIR = your chosen
    directory name which will contain the program copied from floppy.

    2. If the backup insists on accessing DF0: then we suggest you use
    the KillDFX utility accessed through the Expansion Module Button.
    See the Expansion Module section elsewhere in this manual for further
    documentation.

User Control Center : This button allows the advanced user to program
    Maverick's copier.  See the User Control Center section elsewhere
    in this manual.

The following three buttons activate the Maverick copier pre-configured
by us to perform three different functions.  Experienced users may
customize the functions of each of these buttons and save them out for
future use from within the User Control Center.

As the buttons now stand, you may use them to try to copy a title that
is not listed in the HyperCopy , Parameters, or OverRide lists.  We
suggest you try these three copiers in the following order.

U1 : Maverick HyperCopy : Use this copier for your valuable data disks
     or non copy protected commercial titles.  This will copy all 80
     tracks with verify ON, and will correct hard errors by either
     formatting clean or recovering data if possible.  Read errors will
     be displayed as they are encountered.  Write errors will be
     reported as a function of disk integrity.  Errors written probably
     indicate a bad target disk.  In this case try making another copy
     using a different disk.

U2 : Maverick Index Sync Nybbler : if many errors appear when trying to
     backup your title using U1, then re-copy using this copier.  If
     Cylinder 0 Side 0 has errors, then a custom copier must be written
     as the boot track is protected.  Look for this title in future
     Maverick Upgrades.

U3 : Maverick Standard Sync Nybbler : Try this copier if the above two
     fail.  Again if Cylinder 0 Side 0 has errors then a custom copier
     must be written as the boot track is protected.  Look for it in
     future Maverick Upgrades.

PAGE [9]


Expansion : This button is the gateway to current and upcoming Maverick
     utilities.  All selections will appear in the List Window.  To
     activate a selection, center it in the window and click the Do
     button.

Cancel : Clear all selections and return the User Command Screen to
     default power up condition.

Info : The Info Button serves two purposes.

     1. Using the LEFT mouse button, click on the Info button to display
     Maverick version number, copyright and related information.

     2. Using the RIGHT mouse button, click on the Info button to
     CONFIGURE Maverick for your system.  When the following prompts
     appear in the Message Window, use the mouse button to toggle
     through your choices:

     Source Drive : The Source Drive is the drive which will contain
     your original disk for backup purposes.  Defaults to 0 but may
     be toggled to 1, 2, or 3.

     Target Drive : The Target Drive is the drive which will contain
     your backup disk.  Warning: All data currently on the Target Disk
     will be destroyed as it will be overwritten by the backup process.
     Defaults to 0 but may be toggled to 1, 2, or 3.

     Compression : Defaults to ON but may be toggled OFF.  Using
     HyperCopy, Maverick will automatically compress data read in during
     the backup process unless sufficient memory is available for one
     pass copying (1.5 Meg RAM total).  Otherwise, you may force if OFF
     if desired.  Single drive users please should note that compression
     is used to save disk swapping but is approximately 25% slower overall.

     Overlay : Defaults to ON, but may be toggled to OFF.  Maverick
     attempts to obtain as much system RAM as possible to serve as data
     storage.  With Overlay toggled ON, Maverick will discard its own
     screen data (not immediately needed) and load them from disk as
     necessary.  With Overlay toggled OFF, all Maverick screens are
     memory resident but buffer RAM is condsiderably diminished.  In
     order to utilize Maverick as a memory resident program and still
     have one pass copying ability, you must have 1.5 meg RAM minimum.

     Verify : Defaults to ON but may be toggled OFF.  Using HyperCopy,
     Maverick will automatically attempt to verify all data unless the
     Verify option is toggled OFF.  Please note that with Verify
     OFF, the copy time is about 25% faster but the intergrity of the
     backup is suspect.

Exit : Exit the Maverick.

PAGE [10]


Message Window : All messages outgoing and incoming are directed through
     the Message Window which serves as the Maverick user's Input/Output
     port.

                           COPY IN PROGRESS SCREEN

Any time a copy task is selected, the Copy In Progress Screen will
replace the current screen.  For example, click U1 ON.  The Copy In
Progress Screen will automatically appear.  Beginning at the top of the
screen, the functions are:

Track Gauge : The track gauge is a visual representation of the progress
     and position of the drive's read/write head as data is transferred from
     one disk to another.  The track gauge will display the color Light
     Green as each cylinder (0 - 84) on each side (0 or 1) is read.  When
     writing out the data, the color Yellow will appear, overwriting the
     Light Green.  If an error is encountered in the read or write pass,
     the color Red will be displayed in the appropriate spot.

Drive Speed Button : Click ON to test your drive speed.  Use the Drive
     Speed Indicator Bar and the Speed Variation Window to determine
     your current drive speed.  Follow the prompts in the Message Window.
     You will need a SCRATCH disk handy to use this feature.  This is a
     disk that has no valuable data on it - this feature WILL destroy
     all data on a disk as a normal part of its testing.

Drive Speed Indicator Bar : The Dark Green shaded area on the left side
     of the bar represents a speed that is slower than normal.  The
     Light Green shaded area on the right side of the bar represents a
     speed that is higher than normal.  The intersection of the two
     shaded areas indicates normal speed.  As the speed check proceeds,
     a pointer will move along the bar to indicate the current speed of
     your drive.

Speed Variation Window : Advanced users only : Our speed check works
     by writing data onto a scratch disk.  The speed is determined by
     reading back the numer of bytes written to a track on that disk.
     The Speed Variation window will display the number of bytes
     written (in Hexadecimal), above or below NORMAL.  Thus a positive
     reading indicates a slow drive.  A negative reading indicates a
     fast drive.  And a zero reading would be normal.

Cancel : When a task is in progress, click the Cancel button to abort.
     Another click will return the user to the previous screen.

Drive: 0 1 2 3 : Click ON the Drive button to circumvent the default
     settings and redefine the desired device numbers.

OK : Begin Copy procedure.  Follow prompts in Message Window.

PAGE [11]


                          USER CONTROL CENTER

IMPORTANT: The User Control Center is provided as a feature to the
advanced user.  A thorough understanding of Amiga disk format is
necessary to effectively program this manual.  Two manuals we recommend
are: Amiga ROM Kernel Reference Manual : Includes & Autodocs published
by Addison Wesley.  Amiga Disk Drives Inside & Out published by Abacus.

The User Control Center is the advanced user's access to many capabilites
of the poweful Maverick copier.  Once a configuration is programmed,
it may be saved and recalled for future use.  From the Command Screen,
click the User Control Center button.  When the User Control Center
screen appears, the functions of the following buttons are:

Do Copy : Begin Copy procedure as currently configured.

Drive Speed : Takes user to the Copy In Progress screen.  Only the
    Speed Control option is functional.  When done, click the Cancel
    button to return to the User Control Center.

Return : Exit to Command Screen.

The following buttons are used to program the copiers that are called
up when the U1, U2, or U3 buttons are clicked on from the Command
Screen.

Nybble/Data : Toggle Nybble ON when attempting to duplicate a disk
    known to be copy protected.  Toggle Data ON when duplicating a disk
    free of copy protection or a data disk.

Source/Target : Click button ON representing desired Source and Target
    devices.  Any combination may be used.

Side : Click this button to toggle copier to Side 0, Side 1, or Both
    Sides.

Start/End : Toggle this button to set Starting and Ending Tracks to be
    copied.  Notice the window to the right of the Start/End Button
    displays the current track setup.  To change, toggle the Start or
    End button as desired and click the window ON.  You may now input
    the desired track as two numerical characters through the keyboard
    and press RETURN to lock in.  If an input error is made, press the
    DELETE key to clear the window and try again.

U1 U2 U3 : The User Control Center allows the user to program up to
    three different copiers that may be used immediately, or saved
    for future use.  You may toggle

PAGE [12]


    any one of the copiers ON by clicking the appropriate button.  The
    copier currently displayed and active will have it's appropriate
    button highlighted.

Default : This will return the copier currently displayed (U1, U2, or
    U3) back to the original factory settings.

Cancel : This will return the copier currently displayed (U1, U2, or
    U3) back to the settings last saved by the user.

Sync : Toggle to OFF : No Sync looked for.  Data is copied as encountered.
    Ineffective in most cases when drive speed changes are not necessary.
    INDEX : Waits for index signal from the drive to signal data transfer.
    SYNC WORD VALUE (HEX) : Defaults o $4489.  You may change to desired
    value of Sync Word to signal data transfer.  Simply click the Window
    ON and input the desired hex value as four hexadecimal digits
    through the keyboard and press RETURN to lock in.  If an input error
    is made, press the DELETE key to clear the window and try again.

Load : Load the U1, U2, and U3 copiers that were last saved.  This will
    overwrite existing copiers currently displayed.

Save : Save out the U1, U2, and U3 copiers as they are presently
    configured.  This will ovrwrite the copiers last saved.

                             EXPANSION MODULES

All new utilities created by us in the future will be accessed through
the expansion module button found on the main Control Center.  From the
Control Center simply click the Expansion Button and a list of
available selections will appear in the List Window.  Center the desired
selection in the Last Window and click the Do button ON.

MAVERICK HARD DRIVE INSTALLATION

Place Maverick in your Amiga floppy drive and from the Expansion List
select MaverickHDInstall.  In a short time, a window will appear in the
center of the screen and request a directory path.  From the keyboard,
enter the desired destination path.  For example, the command
DH0:DIRNAME1/DIRNAME2/DIRNAME3 will force Maverick to the DIRNAME3
directory (as a new sub directory).  In this case, to boot Maverick,
starting from DOS, change directories
(CD DH0:DIRNAME1/DIRNAME2/DIRNAME3/MAVERICK) and start the boot process
by typing MAVERICK and hit RETURN.  For more information on Hard drive
DOS commands consult your Amiga Owner's Manual provided with your
Amiga computer.

PAGE [13]


KillDFX

Place Maverick in your Amiga floppy drive and from the Expansion List
select KillDFX.  In a short time a window will appear in the center
of the screen.  You will be prompted to input the hard drive directory
path that contains the backup.  KillDFX searches your backup for all
occurances of DF0: followed by a filename and removes the reference to
DF0:.  This way the program should access the affected files from
your hard drive (unfortunately we can offer no guarantee).

                              CONCLUSION

Let's talk straight with each other.  We know the Maverick is quite
easy to steal.  If you've purchased this program, you're a valued
customer.  If you haven't, you're a thief.  Also, this program was
created specifically to allow legitimate purchasers of software to
exercise their right to create an archival backup of that software.
It was not created to be a tool to allow thieves to build up their
illicit libraries.

We're not going to dictate ethics to you.  You know what's right and
what's wrong.  But we will point out a simple fact.  Talent, in any
field of endeavor, is rare.  If the few gifted programmers out there
cannot support themselves by sharing their talent with us, we all lose.
Please keep this in mind, and use this tool as it was intended.  The
Maverick was designed to allow you to enforce your rights - not to
deprive others of their fair due.

We've given you the power.  But please remember that with power comes
responsibility.

PAGE [14]


