SOLUTION TO MOONMIST by Andreas Paul and Stephan Englhart

	Press  the  eye  of  the  dragon  at  the  door and give your name and
favorite  color.   If  you want to follow this solution you should indicate
the  color blue.  (There are several possible ways to solve this game, this
is only one of them.  If you want to find the others, go ahead and try!)
	After  Tamara  has  introduced  the other guests, you enter your room.
Tamara  leaves, leaving you with the butler who will ask you whether you're
the  famous  American detective.  You say yes.  Now he will tell you all he
knows  about  the  ghost.   Finally  he'll  ask you if you want to take his
advice.   Now  he  will give to you an aerosol device that was once used to
keep the dog under control, but will also do as a weapon against the ghost.
Before  you  join  the  other  guests  at the dinner table at eight o'clock
sharp,  you  must  take a bath and wear your dinner outfit.  If you examine
the  mirror  you'll  find  some sort of switch that can be used to reveal a
secret hallway.
	At  eight  o'clock  you  enter the dining hall.  Stay here for half an
hour.   Now  you'll  suddenly  hear  the voice of the deceased lord of this
manor, stating that the game will begin.  It's a taped recording of course,
hidden behind a bust.  You'll find the first tip under the bowl.  Lord Jack
has  another  one,  which he will give to you when asked.  You can get more
information from the maid and the butler in the sitting room.
	The  hidden  treasure  consists  of a prehistoric skull, hidden in the
clock, which can be found when you go up from the Great Old Hall.
	Here's  the  way  to  reveal  the  true identity of the ghost.  If you
follow  the  butler's  advice  and search the floor of the new hall, you'll
find  a  contact  lens.   There's  also  Vivien who seems to be looking for
something on the floor.  In the wooden chest in your room there's a plastic
box hidden, made to hold two lenses, but there's only one in there.  If you
want  to  catch  the  ghost,  hide in the secret passage ways after all the
other  guest (including Vivien) have gone to bed.  You'll probably find the
ghost  here  at Midpoint.  The moment the ghost will try to attack you with
his pipe, you use the aerosol device given by the butler and the ghost will
drop  to  the  floor.   Use  this  opportunity  to collect the pipe and the
ghost's costume.  Surprise, surprise, it's Vivien!
	When  Vivien  has regained consciousness, she will return to her room.
Follow  her  and  wait for her to fall asleep.  Go to your room, search the
plastic  box again and you'll find a secret diary that was hinted at in the
maid's letter.  Reading the diary will give you the final proof of Vivien's
guilt.  Get Vivien arrested and you'll have solved the game.
