SOLUTION TO OO-TOOPOS

 Everything  was  going  fine  on your mission to pick up the counteractive
substance from Labport V to save Earth's population from annihilation.  The
question now, however, is how did you get into this mess?

 You  awake  to  find  yourself  locked  in  a cell on an alien planet with
nothing  but the clothes you were wearing.  Sitting in the cell is a bottle
with  some liquid in it and a tray of Terran food.  Looking out your cell's
window, you can see your ship, lonely and deserted.  Let's get the heck out
of here before whatever did this to you returns!

 Get  the food and the bottle and examine the cell door's lock.  Looks sort
of  fragile.   Kick  the  lock three times.  With each subsequent kick, the
lock  becomes  weaker until it breaks apart with your third kick.  Open the
door.

 As  you  do  so,  an  alarm  sounds somewhere in the distance.  No time to
lounge  around  here!   Go north to the Guard Post and push the red button.
Whew!   At least that blasted alarm has stopped.  Right now, though, you're
probably  being  fired at by an unseen alien.  Push the green button on the
panel  and  a door swings open revealing a pair of goggles and a laser gun.
Get the laser and the goggles, then go east to the Intersection.

 Uh-oh, there's an alien here, leveling his weapon right in your direction.
Quickly, fire the laser at the alien.  In wide-eyed, horrified silence, the
alien  realizes  he's  a  goner!   Your laser vaporizes him, and everything
around  you, neatly.  For several seconds it seems you've also died; but as
your surroundings reappear, you see you've survived!  Now the game takes on
a more leisurely pace.

 Go  west  twice to the Recreation Lounge and play the strange game you see
there.   Ah,  nice  going!   It  seems you've won.  The machine spits out a
block of Vegan Silver as your prize.  Take the block and go east twice back
to  the  Intersection,  and north three times to the Corridor Intersection.
It's time you found more pratical clothing and a light source.

 Go east into the Main Gravtube Room and push the button on the gravtube to
activate  it.   Enter the tube and push the red button twice.  What is that
terrible  odor?   Exit the gravtube and you find out, rather abruptly, that
the  odor is coming from the Garbage Disposal you've just entered.  A sound
suddenly hisses to life, and your odoriferous surroundings become even more
noxious as the escaping gas causes the garbage to decompose faster.  If you
don't do something soon, you'll be too asphyxiated to do anything at all!

 Wear  the  goggles.  Oh!  Look, there on the far wall.  A button!  Push it
and  the hissing stops just as suddenly as it started.  Soon, you feel much
better  and  can take a closer look at your situation.  Search the garbage.
Yes,  it's  a  gruesome  idea, but it must be done.  Eureka!  You find your
spacesuit,  helmet  and  gloves.  Get and wear all three items and go south
back into the gravtube.

 Push  the  blue  button twice and exit back to the Main Gravtube Room.  Go
east  twice  to  the  Room  of Light.  Good thing you're still wearing your
goggles.  Light radiates from the walls in a blinding torrent.  Without the
goggles, you would've missed that Plasma Sphere on the floor here.  Get the
sphere  and go east twice to the Main Gravtube Room, then north to the Vast
Chamber.  Go to the Podium you see north of you.  There's a light-rod here!
Now  you can explore the rest of this planet without much trouble.  Get the
rod and go south twice back to the Main Gravtube Room.

 Enter  the  tube  and push red once, then exit the tube.  Turn the rod on.
Ignore  the  Pillar's  writing  for  now.  We'll come back to it later.  Go
north  and  turn the rod off.  Go west and south twice and turn the rod on.
Get  the flask and cage from the Biology Lab, turn the rod off and go north
twice  and  west  twice.   Turn  the  rod  on  and  examine the sink in the
Chemistry  Lab.   Put the flask in the sink and pull the handle on the acid
dispenser.   Soon  the  flask  is filled with caustic acid.  Get the flask,
turn the rod off and go east twice, south, and west to the Sentinel's Room.

 You  see  a Language Translator here, but try as you may, the Scanner just
won't  allow  you  to take it.  Time to put him out of your misery.  Simply
firing the laser at the Scanner does nothing -- his shielding is too tough.
Throw  the  flask  at the Scanner.  As the acid splashes on the Scanner, it
eats  holes  in the shielding exposing the delicate wiring and chips.  Now,
fire  the  laser at the Scanner.  In short order, you destroy it!  Take the
translator  and go east, north, east, and north three times to the Corridor
Intersection, then east to the Main Gravtube Room.

 1 Cell to Scanner
 2 Tube to Pool
 3 Pool to Pillar Room
 4 Pillar Room to Spaceport


Enter choice !2

 Enter the tube and push blue and exit the tube.  The cutest little critter
you've  ever  seen  is  sitting here looking at you with large, round eyes.
Why  on  earth  it's  called  a  Snarl is beyond human reasoning!  Drop the
goggles  and  get  the  Snarl.  You catch it in the cage quite easily.  Now
open  the  airlock and go east to the Solarium Roof.  Get the Gold Ring you
find  on  the  ledge  and  read  the  sign on the north wall.  (Without the
Language  Translator,  you'd  not  be able to!) Hm, "Emergency Exit." Well,
this  could  be  deemed  an  emergency,  so go north.  Doubts?  Indecision?
Well, it IS a 50-meter drop...oh, go for it!

 Say  YES, and as you feel yourself plummeting to certain death on an alien
planet, a soft ramp extends, catching you neatly, and sliding you safely to
the jungle floor below.  Go east twice, west, and south to the Wide Tunnel,
and drop the Sphere, Block, Bottle and Food.  Now take a look at that nifty
Gravcar  sitting  there.  Latest model, too!  Enter the car and push the up
button.   With  a  smooth  lift,  the car begins to rise up into the tunnel
above  you.   Halfway up, it stops in the dark.  Don't panic, just push the
up  button again.  The car continues its ascent and deposits you at the top
of the Tunnel.  Go south, east twice, north three times, and west.

 Read  the  Mosaic  writing if you wish.  It has nothing to do with solving
the  game.   Go  west  again  and  turn the rod on.  You find yourself in a
Library.   An odd crystal and a projector are here.  Put the crystal in the
projector  and  push the projector's button.  A familiar scene plays before
you;  but, like the writing under the Mosaics, it offers no help in solving
the  game.   Open  the  door  on the north wall and go north into the Musty
Room.   The  only  thing  of  interest here is the Manual for Intergalactic
Tachyon  Drive  Spacecraft.   You'll need it in order to put your ship back
together.  Get the Manual, turn the rod off, and go east.

 Shades  of Escher!  What is this place all about?  The room you've entered
seems  to  have  six "floors!" This requires a calm head and cool thinking.
No,  hard  as  you try, there's just no logic to this place.  Go up and you
find  yourself  in  another  of  these  "floor  rooms."  Go down and sanity
returns.   You're  in  a  Medical Amphitheater.  Go down the stairs and you
find  yourself  in front of a Stage.  An odd creature, a Gryxks, is sitting
serenely,  guarding the Energy Converter from your ship!  He's surprised to
see  you,  as  if you were some escaped laboratory animal.  If only you had
something  to  divert  its  attention  long  enough  for  you  to grab your
Converter and make a run for it!

 Hm,  laboratory  animal?   Cage?  Snarl!  Yes, open the cage and the Snarl
dashes out having a jolly good time running in confusing circles around the
Gryxks,  who  chases  the pesky creature much as a human would chase a fly.
Drop  the  cage,  get the Converter and go up, south twice, and down to the
Musty  Room.   Go  south,  and east four times to the Radiation Room.  On a
pedestal in the center of this dangerous room sits the navigation chip from
your ship.  Examination of your Energy Converter tells you that it converts
lethal radiation into a clean energy source.

 Put  the  converter  into  the  radiation.   The  converter dissipates the
radiation enough so that you can take your Navchip.  Now get your Converter
and  go  north.  What a strange room this is!  Every surface of the room is
covered  with dazzling Mirrors!  And there, in the center of the room, is a
4-dimensional  mirror.   The mirrors in the room confuse and baffle you and
you  can't  seem  to  see  any  exits.  Look into the 4-dimensional mirror.
Balance  seems  to  return  and  you can plainly see several exits from the
room.  Only one is important.  Go north into the room and turn the rod on.

 You  see a Viewscreen with a picture of another room inside this building.
Only  two  of the views are important to you.  Examination of the machinery
in  the  Viewscreen  Room shows you two buttons (red and blue) and the Data
Card from your ship.  Don't take your Data Card just yet, though.  Push the
blue  button  until  you  see the Frozen Room.  This is where the vial from
Labport  V  is located.  Push the red button to open the chest in which the
vial  is  locked.   Now push the blue button until you see the Tractor Beam
Room.   A  careful reading of this room's description tells you the beam is
turned on and pointed out into space -- to trap approaching (or departing!)
alien craft, no doubt.  Push the red button to turn the beam off.

 Take  your  Data Card and leave the room by going south.  Turn the rod off
and  look  into  the  4-dimensional mirror once more to find the exits.  Go
west,  south,  west, down twice, south, west twice, and north to the top of
the  Tunnel.   Enter the car and push the down arrow twice.  Once you reach
the  bottom, drop everything you're carrying except for the rod, spacesuit,
helmet, and gloves, then get the bottle and go north and east.

 1 Cell to Scanner
 2 Tube to Pool
 3 Pool to Pillar Room
 4 Pillar Room to Spaceport

 You  find  yourself  next  to  a small pool with reeds.  As the wind blows
through  the  reeds,  an eerie "music" seems to come from them.  Get a reed
and go north, east, north twice, and south to the Pyramid Steps.  You can't
seem  to  enter  the  passage leading into the Pyramid.  Some sort of force
field  bars  the  way.   Go  up  to the top of the Pyramid.  Sitting in the
center  is  a  beautiful  Moon Jewel!  Get the Jewel and go down, west, and
north.   This  planet  seems  to be rife with cute, cuddly creatures!  This
little  guy is called a Huja and he could probably be called the "pack rat"
of  OO-TOPOS,  for sitting on the ground in front of him is your Stablizing
Gyro!   But  he's  not  willing to trade it for something else; he wants it
all.   No matter what you give him, he'll keep it.  Better try to calm this
nervous  fellow.  Well, you know what they say:  Music hath charm to soothe
the savage beast.  That's right, blow through the reed.

 A  calmness  seems  to  cross over the Huja's features and he appears less
nervous.   You  could even pet it if you wanted to, but you don't have time
for that now.  Take the Gyro and go east to the Beach.  This place is lousy
with  the  parts of your ship!  Sitting on the sand is your Shielding Unit!
Unfortunately,  hovering  above it is a wicked looking Collector Robot -- a
sort  of  mechanical  janitor.  A quick look at the sea tells you that it's
molten  lava.   Throw  the reed into the sea.  True to its programming, the
Collector Robot goes to retrieve your litter and sinks into the sea without
waving a claw!  Get your Shield and go east to Crab Beach.

 Ugh!   Look at all those crabs!  Nasty beasts with venomous claws surround
you.   These crabs may be little, but they're certainly not cuddly!  On the
sand  at  your feet is a beautiful Ruby Seashell.  Take the Shell.  Just as
you  do  so,  one  of  the  crabs  sidles over to your ankle and gives it a
painful  nip.   You  can feel the venom coursing through your veins, making
you  dreadfully thirsty.  Drink the liquid from the bottle.  Instant relief
floods through you as the antidote counteracts the poison from the crab.

 Go  north.   Standing forlornly in front of you is your ship, hull intact,
but utterly lifeless.  Open the airlock and go north into the airlock.  Now
go  north  into  the  Cargo  Bay and drop the Moon Jewel and the Shell.  Go
south and west to the Computer Room.

 As  you  enter  the  Computer Room, the Computer Console comes to life and
asks  you  to  enter  the  Mission  Code.  Enter the "Mission Code" as it's
printed on the letter that came with your game package.  The Computer tells
you  what the current ship's status is (including the amount of fuel left),
and  that  you  must  find  artifacts  with  which  to  purchase sufficient
quantities  of  fuel to return to Earth.  The Computer also tells you which
pieces  of  equipment  are  missing  from the ship and have to be installed
before  liftoff  can  occur.   It  tells you to install the items and bring
alien artifacts to it for frod evaluation.  At last:  Reason to this rhyme!

 Go east, south twice, west, south, east, and north to the Jungle Clearing.
Examine the flower and try to take it.  As you do, the center drops out and
falls to the ground.  It's an Emerald!  Get the Emerald and go east, south,
and  east to the Pyramid Steps.  The Shielding Unit should take care of the
force  field now, so enter the opening and turn the rod on.  Sitting on the
floor  is a Psi-Cube.  Get the Cube and exit the Pyramid.  Turn the rod off
and  go  east  and  west.   Get  the Ring, Navchip and Data Card.  Go north
twice, east, and north twice to the Airlock.

 Go  north  to  the  Cargo Bay and drop the Ring, Emerald and Cube.  Now go
south  and  west  and install the Data Card.  Go west once more and install
the  Navchip.   Now  go  east and ask the Computer for a status report.  It
tells  you  how many "frods" (the monetary unit) are needed to purchase the
necessary  fuel and how many frods you've collected so far.  Since you have
to  bring  all the treasures to the Computer for evaluation, the frod count
is zero.  Drop the Rod, Shield and Gyro.

 Go  east,  south  twice,  west,  and south twice to the Clearing.  Get the
Converter,  Translator and Laser.  Go north twice, east, north twice to the
Airlock  and  east  to  the Port Engine Room.  Install the Converter and go
east.   Drop  the  Laser  and get the Rod, Shield and Gyro.  Go east, south
twice, west, an4
 Turn  the rod on.  Here you are back in the Pillar Room.  Read the writing
on  the  Pillar:   TAKA  ELE  LEVA.   What  strange  sounding words!  Rough
translation  of these words is "THERE AND BACK." But where's "THERE?" Let's
find  out!   Say  TAKA.   You  feel  as  if  you've been demolecularized as
blackness  stops  all  sensation,  and  put  back together as the blackness
changes  to  sparkling  lights.  Yes, truly, the Pillar was a teleportation
device,  for  when  you're "reassembled," you find yourself in a completely
different  room  with  another  teleporter  protruding from the metal wall.
Bizarre!  Drop the Translator.

 From  the  Teleporter  Room go east twice.  Without the Shielding Unit and
the Stabilizing Gyro, you'd not have been able to do this.  Ah, here's your
Cryon  Purifier and Tachyon Power Cylinder!  You can't manage both of these
items,  so take the Purifier and go west twice.  Drop the Purifier, go east
twice, and get the Cylinder.  Go west twice and drop the Cylinder.
 What  about that north/south passage under the east/west catwalk?  Go east
and  down to the north/south passage, then north.  That's the last piece of
equipment  missing  from  your  ship!   Get your Oxygen Recirculator and go
south,  up,  and  west.  Drop the Recirculator, go east and down.  Open the
door and go south.  This is the Frozen Room you saw in the Viewscreen Room!
And   there,  nestled  safely  inside  an  open  chest,  is  the  precious,
life-saving  vial!   Get the vial from the chest and go north, up, and west
back to the Teleporter Room.  Get the Cylinder and say LEVA.

 In  a  heartbeat,  you're  transported  back to the Pillar Room.  Drop the
Cylinder  and say TAKA.  Get the Purifier and say LEVA.  Drop the Purifier,
say  TAKA,  and  get the Recirculator.  Finally, say LEVA.  Now to move all
your  equipment  to  a  convenient  pickup  point.  Turn the rod off and go
north,  west  twice,  and  north.   Drop  the  Recirculator, vial, Gyro and
Shield.   Go  south,  east  twice,  and  south.   Get  the Purifier and the
Cylinder.   Go  north,  west twice, and north.  Enter the car and push down
twice.  At the bottom of the Tunnel, drop the Purifier and Cylinder.  Enter
the  car,  take  it back to the top of the Tunnel and get the Gyro, Shield,
Cylinder, and vial.  Enter the car and take it to the bottom of the Tunnel.
 Go north, east twice, west, north twice, and east to the Port Engine Room.
Install  the  Cylinder.   Go north to the Starboard Engine Room and install
the  Shield.  Go west, south, and west to the Bridge, and install the Gyro.
Go  east twice and North to the Cargo Bay.  Drop the vial.  Go south twice,
east,  north,  west,  and south to the Tunnel.  Get everything that's there
and go north, east twice, west, and north twice to the Airlock.  Go east to
the  Port  Engine Room and install the Purifier.  Go north and west to Life
Support  and  install the Light Rod and the Recirculator.  Go south and ask
the  Computer  for a status report.  You should receive a notice saying all
the  missing  equipment  is  installed  and  that  you  have zero frods for
purchasing fuel.  It's time to evaluate the treasures you've collected.

 Go  east  and  close  the  Airlock.   Go  north  and  remove  and drop the
spacesuit, helmet and gloves.  Get the Ring, Shell, Emerald, Sphere, Block,
Jewel  and  Cube  and  go  south and west to the Computer Console.  Ask the
computer  to  evaluate  each  item separately.  You should have merchandise
worth 527 frods.  Here is a list of the items and what each is worth:

 Ring 31
 Shell 133
 Emerald 56
 Sphere 89
 Block 69
 Jewel 119
 Cube 30

 The  Computer  states  that  all is in readiness and instructs you to take
your  place  on  the Bridge.  Go west to the bridge.  It'll be great to get
home!   The engines rumble to life and you see the planet's surface falling
away  beneath  you.   Due  to  your  forethought, the tractor beam has been
evaded  and no hostiles are detected.  After a brief layover at Mealy Sukas
trading  post  to  exchange your treasures for fuel, you settle back for an
uneventful flight back to Labport V and your final destination:  Earth!

 The  news  of  your  ship's  approach abates the panic which threatened an
emergency  evacuation  of  a  mere handful of the planet's population.  The
vial  you've returned with will save the entire planet from decimation!  As
you  dock  at  the  spaceport,  a  grateful  delegation rushes to meet you.
Welcome home, Hero!
