
                            PERSONAL NIGHTMARE !

Tynham  Cross,  the  place  that  holds  many  childhood memories for me, is
nestled  up  in  the  hills of the county of Woldshire.  The call of the big
cities  and  more  appetizing  job  opportunities  called me away many years
before - leaving my parents and childhood memories behind..  Until Now!

A  letter  arrived  from  my  mother - a strange letter.  It seemed like any
normal mothers letter would be on the surface, but reading between the lines
I  knew  there  was  something wrong.  My father, the village vicar had been
acting  strange  of  late and had developed a keen interest in the life of a
previous  vicar,  James  Hyatt  who  had  apparently  been killed by his own
paishioners  in a bizarre ritual to rid the village of a devil although such
events were common in the 17th century when James Hyatt ran the parish.

Anyway  to  cut a long story short my mother wanted me to come home at once.
Stranger  still  I  received  a scribbled message from my father advising me
that  as  the house was being redecorated he had made arrangements for me to
stay  at  the  local  inn, The Dog and Duck, he added that my mothers sister
Alice  had  been taken ill and was currently bedridden.  Also that my mother
had gone to visit her in the neighbouring town of Camblethorpe but she hoped
to be back in time for my visit.

The  next  morning  I  boarded the train to Tynham Cross, I'd had a restless
night  and was very tired, I looked through the brief brochure my father had
sent  me  about  the  Inn, and shortly in the warmth and security of my cosy
cottage, I drifted into a troubled sleep...

Comments..

I must confess to not being fan of 'standard' adventure games but then again
this isnt one!  To say this game was atmospheric would be an understatement,
you  really  do feel a sense of 'being there' as you walk around.  The mouse
is used to enter almost all of the commands including directions and many of
the  major keywords (look, examine, take and drop etc) You begin the game in
the  bar of the Dog and Duck, when you suddenly hear a screech of tyres.  On
further  investigation  you  find  one  of  the local residents has been the
victim of a hit and run driver.  The plot thickens!

If  you  like  adventures, you will have already considered this one, if you
don't  like  them  -  give  this  one  a  go  -  I  am  sure you will not be
disapointed.

Graphics        88% (Many graphics including animation)
Sound           83% (Spot sampled effects)
Presentation    89% (Easy to use, good to look at)
Playability     87% (Excellent 'feel' to the game)
Overall         89% (On 2 discs, reccomended for adventure fans.)

