                       Police Quest II Solutions

            Ok, I have released this document only to aid some people
         with the game.  I must tell you that this document is not
         complete and it lacks a large quantity of points, but I guess
         It will have to do until some other person writes up the
         complete solutions for the game. -(!)
          
         Ok lets get on with the game.  During the beginning of the
         game you will have to open the glove compartment of your
         small compact.  In the glove compartment you will find a
         business card and a car registration.  Take this card and
         read the back of it, since here is were your locker
         combination is located.  After acquiring your business card
         you will have to get your keys form the car and enter the
         Police building.  After entering the building you will see
         that there is a bin to the right of you.  Well actually it is
         not directly to your right but in the hallway to the shooting
         range.  The hall way to the shooting range is the hall that
         is to your right.  After acquiring the Kit you should go to
         your locker, the locker room is located in the room in the
         upper left hand corner beside the evidence window to the
         left.  Your locker is located right beside the sinks.  Ok you
         should be at your locker now and all you have to do now is
         open your locker, your combo is on the back of the business
         card that you acquired.  You take all your junk from your
         locker, hand cuffs, guns, ammo, etc.  You then go to the
         homicide office, which is the second room from the bottom of
         the screen, it's on your left hand side.  You enter the room
         and go to the back of the room and read the bulletin board,
         and get your keys for the unmarked patrol car. Just wait
         around now for the Captain to tell you that Bains has
         escaped prison and all the details.  You then go to your desk
         which is in the center of the room, or the desk which isn't
         occupied.  You unlock your drawer and open it, you get your
         wallet and the note.  You then look inside your wallet to
         reveal your diving certificate.  After doing all this you
         have to get up now and go to the captains desk (the guy who
         is either eating ice cream or talking on the telephone),
         there you will find a bunch of paper, you will have to look
         at the paper to get the passwords for computer.  After doing
         this you will have to go over to the filing cabinet and open
         the drawer to get the file on Jessie Bains, after acquiring
         this file you must take the photo that is attached to it.
         Ok put the file away and proceed to the firing range where
         you will calibrate your pistol.
              You go up to the guy at the desk and show him your gun,
         he will acknowledge you that you can pick any booth and hand
         you back you gun, he will also remind you to get some ammo
         from him after your done.  After showing your gun you have to
         ask the guy for a set of ear protectors.  Ok all you have to
         do now is enter the firing range pick any booth that isn't
         occupied, load your gun, wear your protectors, then press f8
         and your arm should come up.  Aim for the target and then
         press f10.  When aiming for the target try to hit a pretty
         visible spot, for example the 0 of the 10 or the middle or
         the head.  After firing two to three shots press f8 again to
         lower your gun, then press the view button and the target
         will come up to you.  Look at the target and see how much you
         missed it by then adjust your sight.  The instructions for
         the sight adjustments are pretty simple.  After adjusting
         your sight replace the target and press the back button.  The
         target will move back to the wall and you can raise your gun
         and fire again.  Keep doing this until you hit your target
         pretty close to where you were aiming for.  It will
         acknowledge that your aim is on target when it rewards you
         with a few points.  After doing this you go back to the man
         at the desk give him back the protectors and then get your
         new ammo.
              Ok your done at the police station, all you have to do
         now is go out side and get into the blue unmarked car.  This
         car is right across from your car.  You unlock the car and
         go to the trunk and open it, there you will place your kit in
         the trunk other wise the game will not let you proceed any
         further.  You then enter your car and you partner will come
         screaming out of the police station telling you to wait for
         him.  After you have entered the car you type in the phrase
         " Drive to jail ",  your partner will notify the office that
         you are enrounte to the jail.  Ok now your at the jail your
         partner will take off on you, you will have to open the
         locker in front of the jail and put you gun inside it.  After
         doing this you press the button that is located beside the
         door it will acknowledge the person at the jail that someone
         wishes to get in, in order for you to get in you have to show
         the jailer your badge.  After entering the jail you go to the
         jailer and ask to see the file on Jessie Bains,  he/she will
         hand you the file and you can now take the more recent photo
         of Bains.  That's all you do here, you leave the jail and get
         your gun you go back to your car and type enter car, again
         your partner will come screaming.  He will do this through
         out the game, a bit of an ass.  You then type Drive to
         Office,  again your partner will notify the office of where
         you are going.
              While driving to the office you will be notified that
         there they have found the car of the prison guard that Bains
         took as a hostage.  You drive to the Mall, which is where the
         car was found.  All you do here is go to the sports car on
         the screen and open it's glove compartment, take all the
         items in the glove compartment.  Close the door and then wait
         around for the officer to come and he will introduce you to a
         woman who has had her car stolen.  You question the lady(type
         ask for description), and she will tell you what type of car
         it is and stuff like that.  After talking to the lady you get
         back into your car, as usual your partner comes and you drive
         back to the office.
              While driving to the office you will be notified to go
         to the Cotton Cove.  There you will find this jogger you
         question here and she will tell you the location of the body
         of the prison guard.  You should go back to your car and get
         the kit that you put in the trunk, after doing this you go to
         the top of the present screen and then go to the left.  After
         entering the next screen you should draw your gun since Bains
         will try to kill you in this screen.  When a man jumps out of
         the bushes he will fire a couple of shots, you will have to
         fire back to scare him off.  After firing back he will take
         off and a car will come by with Bains inside.  Ok If the
         Bains kills you it's probably because you don't have your gun
         sighted right and you have to go through the firing range
         procedures all over again.  Ok after this you will have to go
         to the screen to the left of this one.  Here you will find a
         drag mark of blood, In this screen you will also find a
         garbage can search the garbage can and you'll find some
         clothes with blood on it.  You then go to the blood drag
         marks and use your kit.  You can get blood and take a picture
         and get the foot print.  After doing all this return to you
         patrol car.
              The diving team should arrive very soon.  After the team
         arrives you talk to the guy he will ask you to dive with him
         and you show him your diving certificate.  After doing this
         the man will change and he will let you change, when you
         enter the van take all the stuff that you need, but when you
         take the oxygen tank look at the gauge before using it.  Ok
         you are finished with the van and you can go diving now.  Ok
         in this screen you can get the badge which is located roughly
         in the middle of the screen.  To the left of this screen on
         the next one you can acquire the knife.  The knife is located
         close to the edge of the screen on the right.  It will be a
         small grey looking object.  Ok after getting both of these
         you can swim all the way to the right going through two
         screens.  Here you will find a bunch of rocks at the right
         hand side.  Swim to these rocks  and move them around this
         will reveal a body and you can get the body.  After doing all
         this you talk to the diver and he will tell you he will take
         it from here.  You then get into the van change all your
         clothes.
              After doing this you can get back into your car and then
         drive back to the office.  While driving to the office you
         will be notified of a chase between the police and Bains.
         They say the last location was around the airport, so of
         course you drive to the airport.  After arriving at the
         airport you cross the street remember to press the button
         prior to crossing.  After crossing you will but a pot of
         flowers from a lady who is passing by.  You then enter the
         airport you go into wash room and go into the Toilet stall in
         the middle.  There you open the toilet and look inside to
         find a gun.  You get the gun, and then leave the wash room,
         you then go to the counter where they are selling tickets go
         to the lady show your badge and then show the mug shot.  She
         will say yes and all this stuff, you then ask to see flight,
         after all this you enter the next screen which is all the way
         to the back and to the left.  After entering here you should
         go to the rent a car window where you again show the your
         badge and mug shot.  This time the girl will say yes I rented
         a car to him and all this other crap.  You are now finished
         at the Airport and you go back to the office.  You leave the
         airport and cross the road and go back into your car.
         Remember that you must again press the button prior to
         crossing the road.
              You are now back at your car, drive back to the office.
         When you reach the office go to the evidence booth and give
         all your evidence and then go to your desk.  After reaching
         your desk you will get this note from your girl friend Marie
         Walkans, it will tell you to call here so you use the phone
         and call her she will tell you to meet here at this diner.
         After finished with your conversation you get up and leave.
              You Drive to the Diner where you meet Marie, after
         sitting down across from here you wait for the waiter to come
         around so you can order.  Order some dinner and then give
         Marie the flowers, after giving her the flowers you kiss her.
         Ok your almost done here.  You wait awhile until your dinner
         is server you then eat dinner.  After finishing Dinner you
         then Kiss Marie again and again until you get to the next
         day.
              Ok Now your back at the police station, go back to your
         desk and look at the files you will see a lab report type get
         paper and you read it.  The Captain will then notify you of a
         murder on 160 west rose st.  Drive to West Rose street and
         then check it out, After reaching West Rose you should go
         search the body get the envelope corner from the guy and then
         get a blood sample, take a picture and read the envelope
         corner.  Then the Corner's should have arrive by now.  You
         then type in get body you get the body and put the body in
         the car.  You then search the trunk again you should find a
         death threat.
              After all of this Drive to the Address which was written
         on the corner of the envelope, after getting to the Motel you
         should go up to the guy at the window of the motel show your
         badge then your mug shot.  After he tells you what room that
         Bains is in you should go back to your car and then radio in
         a report, you then request for a warrant.  After this you
         should call for back up and then get out of the car.  A short
         while after you exit the car a officer will come and hand you
         the warrant you take the warrant and show it to the man at
         the window.  You then ask for the keys to the room (108) and
         then you go to the room.  Wait for your back up before you
         attempt to open the door.  When opening the door make sure
         that your are not in the middle of the door.  Be sure to be
         at the right side of the door almost to the edge of the door.
         Otherwise you will be shot to death.  After opening the door
         your backup will fire tear gas into the room.  Wait for the
         room to clear then enter the room.  You then enter the room
         search the room at the back to the left where you will find
         Colby's business card in the sink.  After retrieving the
         business card you go to the night table in the room you open
         the drawer and get the envelope.  Then you open the envelope
         and read the letter.  After reading the letter you should go
         back to your car and obtain your kit.  Go back to the room
         and get a blood sample.  Ok your done here.  Now you should
         drive to Marie's place.  Just type Drive to Marie's  and it
         should go there.  After getting there get the note from her
         door and open the door.  After opening the door go to the
         ashtray and get the paper that's in the ash tray.  Ok your
         done here now.  Go back to the office and submit all this
         evidence that you have.
              After your finished submitting your evidence go to the
         firing range and re-calibrate your gun.  When your finished
         doing this then drive to the airport.  When you reach the
         airport you cross the street, Remember the lights!  When your
         in the Airport you should by a ticket for Steelton.  After
         buying the ticket for Steelton you call the Steelton Police
         Dept.(use 411 option) so you can tell them that Colby is in
         danger.  After finishing doing this you get the tickets from
         the man and then go to the top of the screen and to your
         left.
              Your back to the scene where the you asked the lady if
         she saw Bains, all you do now is ride the escalator up and
         then go to the gate.  Show the man your badge and he'll let
         your through, after being let through just board the plane
         and your partner will follow.  After your on the plane sit
         down and fasten your seat belt.  Wait for the Stewardess to
         come around and ask you for refreshments, when you does this
         get some beer.  Ok just wait a while now, some hijackers will
         come and hijack the plane.  Ok you should take off your seat
         belt and load your gun.  After they take control of the plane
         wait for the hijacker to get the stewardess when he throws
         her to the ground the you get up and fire your gun.  You
         should kill the unmasked hijacker.  Then the masked Hijacker
         should come out shot this guy as well.   After killing both
         guy's search the jacket of the masked Hijacker and the Turban
         of the Unmasked Hijacker.  You then go to the back of the
         plane into the wash room and open the paper towel dispenser
         where you will find the bomb.  If you don't see the bomb
         right now then open dispenser.  Take your pliers and cut the
         yellow wire and then the purple and then the blue.  You then
         connect the yellow wire again and then cut the red wire,
         ok now cut the yellow wire.  Ok your done now, you should be
         at the airport and it will take over from here you will he
         flown to the Police station by helicopter and when you get
         there you talk lieutenant.  You then pick up the radio's on
         the table and go into the hallway where your ride is waiting.
         After you get to the park you go to the screen at the back,
         after doing this you go to the screen on the right.  you now
         walk around and wait for a while until a guy comes and tries
         to mug you.  right before he mugs you use the radio and that
         will bring in your partner.  You catch the guy, you question
         him and then read him his rights, and that's about it.
         Around that same area there is a man hole there near the
         bottom of the screen.  Open the man hole and climb down the
         ladder you should be in a sewer.  Ok from here go down and
         keep going down until you hit a dead end.  After you end up
         on this screen just cross the bridge to the right and then go
         up and then make a right turn.  Don't cross over the bridge
         to the other side.  Ok keep walking to the right, after this
         screen you will see a screen with a door in the middle of it.
         Just walk past here and onto the next screen.  When your on
         the next screen walk across the bridge going from bottom to
         top.  then walk to the left towards the screen with the door
         in the middle.   After you reach the door enter the room
         there you will see your girl friend.  Go up to your girl
         friend and calm her down first, then untie her.  After doing
         this hide behind the large pipe on the left hand side of the
         wall, draw your gun out.  When Bains enters the room and
         walks towards the middle of the room face him and fire at
         him.  He should be dead after a few shots.  Well that's about
         it you have finished the game.  Just sit back and watch the
         ending.
                    As I mentioned before this is not the full
         solutions If some one could type it up it would be much
         appreciated.
                              Thanks in Advance..          
                                  - The Silver Surpher -
Imported and slightly edited by The Vigilante.
