
POPULOUS (TIPS) 

Play To Win
Hold on tight to your souls readers,'cos these hints and tips are of cosmic
proportions. In Electronic Arts' -- quite literally -- earth shattering new
game you get the chance to shape the face of the Earth and wrestle with
good and evil alike.

BUILDING
Double click on the same point and then remove the top point, allowing you
to create an area of nine flat blocks in only three clicks.

NOW YOU CAN TURF OR SPROG
Reduce the area of crop fields that a castle has and the size of the
building will be reduced. This lowers the capacity of the building to hold
people and will force a walker to leave if it is too crowded .Use this
method to force a walker from a large castle. It is important to note that
the largest castle uses an extra block around the edge of its crop fields.
This land cannot be used for direct settlement.

LAND MAINTENANCE
Keep your land clean and tidy, remove swamps, rocks, broken and bad land.
Without a strong clean landscape , your population will not flourish. Remove
swamps as they are a direct drain on your population - especially bottomless
swamps.

HOW TO DEAL WITH KNIGHTS
If the enemy starts to use knights against you, you have a number of options
open. Try ignoring the knight and letting it rampage through your land and
burn a few houses; but make sure that you clean up the land and resettle
behind it.Try to drown the knight - the computer opponent will not often
allow you to get away with this but with practice it can often be achieved.
The secret is to build a tough leader that can defeat the knight in combat.
It is possible to use a system of buildings to create an artificial barrier
to the knight's progress by nippling the land, letting the knight fight
through the small houses, then removing the nipples to free some flat land
to resettle.

TOUGH LEADERS
Collect your people in a leader and then use that leader to assault the
enemy. This is one of the most satisfying ways of playing POPULOUS. A tough
leader can also defeat opposing leaders, knights, and can form a tough
knight for your side.

PAPAL MAGNET MODE
Careful use early in the game can move your leader and people away from the
homeland and into new territory fresh for expansion.

WALKERS HAVE IQ
IQ is determined by the technology that walkers have and the number of times 
which they have been sprogged form a settlement. The degrees of intelligence
are reflected by the walker's ability to locate new land etc. A low IQ walker
will waste valuable time circling a large castle trying to find some fresh
unsettled land, whereas the high IQ walker will spot the land five or six 
squares away.

TECHNOLOGY
The technology which a person has directly affects the outcome of any combat
that they are involved in. The weapons factor acts as a multiplier - and so
weak people with swords are often a match for stronger club-wielding walkers.

FIGHT MODE
This mode is very good for passive expansion. Your people will move towards 
the enemy and will tend to settle as they go . This mode is most useful when
you are close to each other at the start of the game.

THE FIGHTING LEADER
You can use your leadre as a direct and controllable weapon, by placing the
magnet in the building that you want to attack and then going into 'goto
magnet' mode. Your leader will charge off and attack the building, occupying
it after the combat. But move the magnet and off he charges. In this mode you
are not settling anything except the buildings that you are fighting over, so
beware of depopulating your lands or being out populated. Your leader is
constantly being supported by your walkers who are drawn to him.

HOW TO WIN GAMES
The most gratifying way of finishing games is by direct use of your leader. A
couple of tough knights certainly knock the stuffing out of weak opponents.
Aided by the leader you can quite quickly finish the opponent off. Armageddon
will draw the game to an instant conclusion, but try swamping just before 
your armageddon if the score is close on population.

COMPUTER STRATEGIES
Learn the tactics and strategies that the computer uses. Look at the opponent
it is allowed and decide which effects it will use. If it can only flood then
build higher; if it can only quake then get ready to be shaken about. Learn 
to be shaken about .Learn the way the computer builds and take advantage of 
it.




ADVANCED TECHNIQUES & STRATEGIES
--------------------------------

NIPPLING
Turf people from castles by lumping or nippling the land around them. Don't
remove the lumps and let the walkers settle amongst the smaller castles. Do
this to a large area around your castles and then remove all the lumps. This
will have a knock on effect that should produce a number of new castles at 
the edge of your land, and then you can expand out from these. This tactic 
also shortens the time taken for a walker to settle after being turfed - a 
vital thing to do on landscapes where the environment is harmful.

MULTISPROGGING
This is similar to nippling - and is designed to create as many settlements
from one as possible. A large castle that has a reasonable population in it
will reduce and produce a walker, so as soon as that happens reduce it again
so that another walker is produced. The first walker will have settled and 
also can be reduced to produce another. From one castle, four settlements 
can be created. Flatten the land and you can create four castles from one.

DETERMINATION
The best way to win any game is to out-build the opponent. Against the 
computer at higher rates this is often quite hard; however you can keep 
building after the computer has alteredits priority to attacking rather than
building. You must weather the attacks and continue to build as fast as you 
can - eventually you can win through.

POOR MAN'S VOLCANO
Get someone into the enemy's land and then settle them. Scroll the map to the
furthest point from the flag of your building then raise the land, upsetting
as many of his houses as possible. This is a cheap way of creating a volcano.

SWAMPS
These are quite simply the most lethal weapon that you have. He who swamps
first swamps hardest. Swamp his leaders and his people. Swamps will
significantly reduce his population and can often keep the computer player 
down while you are building.

THE HANDY SWAMP PLATFORM
To counteract the effect of the computer swamping your leader, you can place
the magnet in any area of land that is lumpy and not susceptible to swamps.
Collect your leader here and release knights into his land. The computer will
try to swamp and have no effect, thus wasting manna.

BUILD HIGH
If the computer has flood and a few other options, it is a good tactic to
build at two or three levels high. You can simply ignore the flood and let it
affect only its own people

DOUBLE VOLCANO
If you build a volcano, try to do it on another volcano, either two together
or on the site of another. Two volcanos together have more of an effect then
two seperate. A double volcano is very time and manna consuming to remove.

CHARGE
Getting your buildings in amongst the opponents gives you the chance to drown
people, upset buildings and generally start attacking where it hurts - his
home. You will also have the advantage of being safer from swamps and other
effects. The computer will start to clean up the land which your people are
settling.

ZEN
Try building lots of settlements without bothering about turning them into
castles. This gives you are larger number of walkers, but they are weaker 
than the castle-sprogged walkers. Zen allows you to ignore the special 
effects and concentrate on spreading and leading your people with your 
leader. Building through the hills tends to stop enemy knights, since they 
spend all their time destroying small and worthless huts and tents rather 
then the important houses and castles. This is called the soggy mountain 
tactic, and you should also build castles at the back of your land with this
buffer of tiny settlements before it.

EXPANSIONIST POLICY
Learn the patterns of crop fields which are required by the various buil-
dings. Learn the fastest building techniques and learn how to multisprogg and
nipple. Then keep your land clean and build. Build some more, you can win 
very tough games this way. Keep doing this until you have out populated the 
opponent and have enough energy to armageddon. Do so and win!

LOUISIANNA
If it moves swamp it, if it doesn't move swamp it anyway.




TWO PLAYER GAME TACTICS
-----------------------

DROWN PEOPLE
In the two player game the other player is less likely to notice the drowning
people. If water is harmful then leave the people drowning in puddles, you 
will find that the people die very quickly in water!!!

HOW TO SWAMP OFF PEAK AREAS
Swamp an area that is at the back or in an out-of-the-way place, and the 
other player will take longer to find it and may not remove it as quickly. 
This will allow more people to fall to their deaths. Swamping after the other
player has just swamped causes a confusion (and if possible also earthquake 
well away from your swamp). The result will be that it looks like your 
retaliation was like a quake - and that the nasty sounds are your people 
drowning in their own swamps.Don't forget to tidy up after you with refer-
ence to these.

