                                   ______
                         /           |  /   |
                        /__   /  \   | /   /|    /  /
                          / |/   |\  |/\  | | | /| /
                         /  |\ | |/  |  \ |/  |/ |/
                        /   |  | /   |   \|   |  |
                      \      __|__        \
                      |\       |                  /
                      |/        /            |   /__  
                      |  |/ /_ /__ /_ |\ | пп|пп   /
                      |  |  \    / \  | \|   |    /
                                /        \   |   /Mct!

                              RED BARON DOCS
                              ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

         Docs typed by Mictlantecuhtli and supplied by Nightspawn


Please Note: these are the IBM docs but they should be very close the the
Amiga docs. Also, I have only done the Game Play chapter since this is the
only section that you must have in order to play the game. I have left out
the Historical Overview, Historical Flight Reference, and Appendices. If
there is enough whining, begging and pleading, I will do the Historical
Flight Reference and Appendices. If someone has the maps, digitize them or
send them to me so that I can do it; the game isn't complete without them.

One last note: IF YOU LIKE THE GAME BUY IT! YOU GET THE COMPLETE DOCS AND
MAPS WHEN YOU DO! Oh joy! Not to forget that these docs are for archival
purposes only since whoever has them also had the actual docs but his dog
(or little brother) ate them! And he really did buy the original but it
was consumed in the fire that....well, er, you get the idea.
нннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннн

S                                 GAME PLAY
K 
I                                INTRODUCTION
D 
  Red Baron is an historically accurate and detailed recreation of flight
R during the era that launched aerial combat, World War I. The controls
O available to the great Aces were few and primitive. However, as a
W computerized simulation, Red Baron is capable of offering you controls
  unlike anything the Aces would have ever dreamed. This portion of the Red
S Baron manual outlines and describes these controls. It does not describe
K the elements of flight such as take-off and landing, maneuvers, and
I tactics. These elements are discussed in detail in previous chapters.
D Please refer to the table of contents for specific page references.
  
R Following are the sections described in this chapter:
O 
W   -Flight Controls
    -View Commands
S   -Machine Gun Controls
K   -Time Compression
I   -Game Play Preferences
D   -Realism Panel
    -Weather
R   -Your flight Group
O   -Simulation Overview
W   -Fly Single Mission
    -Fly Single Mission Condidtions
S   -The Mission Assignment Screen
K   -The Flightr Assignments Screen
I   -Navigation
D   -Ending the Mission
    -Career Play
R   -Career Menu
O   -Aerodrome Menu
W   -Career Sequences
    -The Mission Recorder
S 
K                                 GAME PLAY
I 
D                              FLIGHT CONTROLS:
  
R Movement
O 
W You use the control surfaces and throttle to maneuver your aircraft (for
  more detail, see the Flight Section). These include the ailerons, the
S elevators, the rudder, and the throttle.
K From the Preferences Panel (activated from the simulation by pressing
I F10), you may select which peripheral you have attached. You may select:
D keyboard, joystick, or mouse.
  
R Keyboard and joystick:
O 
W                                Pitch Down
     Roll Left and Pitch Down 7      8      9 Roll Right and Pitch Down
S    Roll to the Left         4             6 Roll to the Right
K    Roll Left and Pitch Up   1      2      3 Roll Right and Pitch Up
I 
D Mouse:
   
R The mouse controls are identical to those for the joystick. For movement
O controls, the mouse is self centering. This means that it will
W automatically recenter itself  after each movement command.
  
S Rudder
K 
I The rudders can be controlled from the keyboard at any time. They can also
D be controlled from the joystick or mouse while in the cockpit view.
  
R   Keyboard Rudder Controls
O   <                  left rudder
W   >                  right rudder
  
S Joystick Rudder Controls
K While in the cockpit view, you may control the rudder with the joystick
I or mouse by pressing and hold both buttons on the joystick or mouse. When
D both buttons are held down simultaneously, moving the joystick or mouse
  left and right will apply rudder in the corresponding direction. External
R views do not allow rudder control form the joystick or mouse. The keyboard
O must be used for external view rudder control.
W 
  Throttle
S 
K The throttle can be controlled by mouse, joystick, or keyboard.
I 
D   Keyboard Throttle Controls
    1...9               controlls throttle
R                       1=idle
O                       9=full throttle
W   +                   increase throttle
    -                   decrease throttle
S 
K Joystick Throttle Controls
I Within the cockpit you may control the throttle with the joystick by
D holding and pressing both buttons on the joystick. When both buttons are
  held down simultaneously, moving the joystick forward will increase
R throttle, and moving it backward will decrease it. This will not work for
O you if your view is outside the aircraft. The keyboard must be used for
W throttle control in external views.
  
S Instruments
K 
I From the Realism Panel, if you turn on Realistic Instrumentsthe only
D instruments you will see will be the ones that existed on the original WWI
  aircraft.
R 
O Altimeter
W Indicates the altitude in feet. The large needle indicates 100's of
  feet, and the small needle indicates 1,000's of feet. It is set to 0 at
S ground level.
K 
I Compass
D Indicates your current heading. The readings are N for North, S for
  South, W for West, E for East.
R 
O Fuel Gauge
W Indicates how much you have left.
  
S Air Speed Indicator
K Indicates your current air speed in miles per hour.
I 
D Tachometer
  Indicates how many revolutions per minute the engine is making. The
R needle indicates rpm's x 100. generally, this corresponds to your current
O throttle setting.
W 
  Oil Pressure Gauge
S Indicates your current oil pressure. If your airplane is damaged and has
K an oil leak, the needle will drop (NO SHIT!).
I 
D Inclinometer
  Indicates the current bank of your aircraft. The instrument is simply a
R ball bearing inside a curved grove. If the ball is to the left of center,
O it means that you have banked left. It's a crude ancestor of the atificial
W horizon equipped in aircraft today.
  
S                               VIEW COMMANDS:
K 
I While patrolling the front, you'll find it necessary to look around often
D to avoid being surprised. The best pilots of WWI were always looking for
  enemy fighters.
R 
O   Controlling View Commands With the Keyboard
W 
    Switching between cockpit and external view
S   Press the return key
K 
I   From within you aircraft (cockpit views)
D   F1    Look forward  (you instruments will be visible)
    F2    Look back
R   F3    Look left
O   F4    Look right
W   F5    Look up
    F6    Look down (lean out and look straight down)
S 
K   From outside your aircraft (external views)
I   F1    View the front of your aircraft
D   F2    View the rear of your aircraft
    F3    View the left side of your aircraft
R   F4    View the right side of your aircraft
O   F5    View the bottom of your aircraft  (look up at your plane from a
W         lower altitude)
    F6    View the top of your aircraft (looks directly down at your plane
S         from a higher altitude)
K 
I   F7    View from a chase plane (the view follows your aircraft in a chase
D         plane). F7 works from within the cockpit and outside your
          aircraft.
R 
O Controlling View Commands with the Joystick
W 
  You may control the current view without touching the keyboard.
S 
K From Within the Cockpit
I 
D Holding down button #2 and moving the joystick forward will switch to Look
  Forward (F1), to the left will switch to look left (F3), etc. Pressing and
R releasing button #2 with the joystick centered will switch from the
O cockpit view to the outside rear view.
W 
  From Outside the Aircraft
S 
K Holding down button #2 while moving the joystick will pan the view
I smoothly around the aircraft: moving the joystick to the left will pan the
D view clockwise around your aircraft, moving the joystick forward will pan
  the view up around the aircraft, etc. Holding down both buttons wile
R moving the joystick foward/backwards will move the camera closer to/away
O from the aircraft. Pressing and releasing button #2 with no joystick
W movement will switch to the front cockpit view.
  
S These commands may be duplicated without a joystick. The keypad will
K function like the joystick, the space bar will function like button #1,
I and the enter key will function llike button #2.
D 
  From any outside view, press ctrl-F1...F10 to save off the current view.
R To switch to any of these saved views, use alt-F1...F10.
O 
W Mouse controls for view commands are identical to those of the joystick.
  Button #1 = left button and button #2 = right button.
S 
K                           MACHINE GUN COMMANDS:
I 
D You are armed with one or two forward-firing machine guns (depending upon
  the plane). That's all the WWI pilots needed. Before going up on the
R mission, you may select what type of ammo to use:  incendiary or regular.
O Incendiary ammo is used to attack Zepplins and balloons. It is extremely
W difficult to ignite a dirigible with regular ammunition. However, regular
  ammunition is more accurate and less likely to jam the machine guns.
S Regular ammunition is also better against enemy airplanes than incendiary.
K 
I Occaisonally, your machine guns will jam. Firing a long burst from your
D machine gun has a greater chance of jamming your guns than does a short
  burst. This is why the good pilots would fire short bursts in their
R attacks. If your guns are jammed, you may try to unjam them by repeatedly
O pressing the "u" key. This won't always work, but keep trying. Note: it is
W possible for your machine guns to permanently jam. You will receive an
  on-screen message indicating this if your attempts at unjamming are
S unsuccessful.
K 
I Press the space bar or button #1 to fire; press the "u" key to unjam the
D guns.
  
R                             TIME COMPRESSION:
O 
W There may be periods of the simulation play where there's not a lot of
  action going on. Often this is after taking off as you make your way to
S the front or after the mission is over and you are making your way back to
K your aerodrome.
I 
D As a convenience, Red Baron contains a time compression modewhich will
  speed up the simulation to amy times its normal speed. Time compression is
R activated by pressing the "c" key.
O 
W Time compression will be automatically deactivated when you press the "c"
  kay again, when you fire your machine guns, when you come near enemy
S aircraft, balloons, Zepplins, or AA guns, and when you fly near the
K ground.
I 
D IMPORTANT!
  It's very difficult to stay in formation when time compression is active.
R because of this, Red Baron will automatically enter Auto-formation when
O time compression is activated. This will control your aircraft and keep it
W locked into formation until time compression is de-activated.
  Auto-formation will NOT activate when you are the flight leader unless you
S are escorting another flight.
K 
I                             Starting Location
D 
  On some missions a menu will appear, giving you a choice of where to start
R you flight. You may start near the action or near the aerodrome. For most
O missions, it is recommended that you start near the action. The missions
W will be shorter and more exciting. However, if you want to try your hand
  at navigating as the WWI pilots did, begin the mission near your
S aerodrome.
K 
I                                PREFERENCES:
D 
  There are two main panels that allow you to control game play, the
R PREFERENCES panel and the REALISM panel. The displayed PREFERENCES panel
O is available only from within the simulation. OPTIONS from the main menu
W will bring up an abbreviated version which does not contain detail level
  controls.
S 
K Preferences Panel
I Press F10 from the simulation to activate. Press ACCEPT or the ESC key to exit.
D 
  With the Preferences panel you may tailor some of the tecnical aspects of
R Red Baron to your tastes and computer configuration. You may customize the
O following game controls:
W 
    Joystick on/off
S   Sound on/off
K   Mouse on/off
I   Time Scale Adjustment low-high
D   Ground Detail Level Adjustment low-high
    Aircraft Detail Level Adjustment low-high
R   Combat Button Regular/off
O 
W Note:  settings and adjustments made to the preferences and realism panels
  are automatically saved to disk. The new settings remain even if you quit
S and restart Red Baron later.
K 
I Detail Levels
D The smoothness of simulation play is dependent upon two things: the speed
  of your computer and the amount of graphic detail displayed. The first of
R the two, the speed of your computer, cannot be changed. However, with
O the graphic detail controls, you can reduce the amount of graphic detail
W displayed. The detail sliders give you control over the amount of graphic
  detail that your computer is required to display. You may trade off detail
S for smoother animation according to your tastes. When you first install
K Red Baron, it will set the detail slider's positions based upon the speed
I of your computer.
D 
  There are three controls that allow you to select the amount of graphic
R detail in the simulation. Depending on the speed of your computer, you may
O want to increase or decrease the amount of graphic detail to control the
W smoothness of play.
  
S Aircraft detail controls how detailed the aircraft displayed will be.
K 
I Ground detail controls how many terrain features are displayed at once.
D 
  Combat button controls the amount of ground detail displayed during combat
R sequences. When set to normal ground detail, the ground detail will remain
O the same when you enter aerial combat. When set to no ground detail, the
W ground detail will be cut back during combat. This will increase the
  smoothness of animation during combat.
S 
K Time Scale
I Time scale control is provided to help in cusomizing the pace of
D simulation play to fit best fir your tastes. If battles are moving too
  fast for you, move the Time Scale slider towards LOW. This will slow the
R action down. If you're playing on a machine that runs slow even with the
O detail levels turned down, try moving the Time Scale slider towards HIGH.
W This will speed up the action.
  
S Low = Slower and easier to control. High = faster and more difficult to
K control but it is best for slower computers.
I 
D                               REALISM PANEL:
  
R Press alt-r to access
O Press accept or esc to ext
W Press restore to cancel
  
S You may change any of the realism settings from either the mission
K assignment screen or from within the simulation itself. The settings allow
I you to customize certain features of the game to your own tastes. IN most
D cases, each setting gives you a choice between ease of use and realism.
  
R There are 11 settings you may switch from realistic to nonrealistic. When
O a setting is set to realistic, a red check mark appears beside it.
W Pressing the button for the setting will switch it between available
  states. For convenience, we've included three buttons at the top of the
S realism panel to allow you to change all the settings at once. Each has
K default settings for different skill levels including Novice,
I Intermediate, and Expert. Following are descriptions of realism settings
D available.
  
R Realistic Instruments. When turned on, the only instruments seen from the
O cockpit will be the ones that existed on the original WWI aircraft. When
W turned off, all possible instruments are displayed.
  
S Sun Blind Spot. When turned on, the Sun Blind Spot will cause a glare
K whenever you view is placed directly at the sun. Enemy aircraft which are
I in the sun will not be visible until they are very close.
D 
  Realistic Weather. If turned on, the weather conditions will vary from
R mission to mission. If turned off, the weather will always be perfect: the
O sky will be clear with no clouds, and there will be a light wind.
W 
  Gun Jams Allowed. The machine guns in WWI were very unreliable and would
S jam frequently. The longer the gun was fired, the greater the chance that
K it would jam. Pilots would often carry a hammer or mallet with which to
I hit their machine guns in case of jamming. When Gun Jams Allowed is turned
D off, your machine guns will operate perfectly, never jamming.
  
R Blackouts Allowed. The pilots of WWI didn't have oxygen masks, and
O consequently a pilot who flew above 20,000 feet for too long would get
W dizzy and occaisonally even black out from lack of oxygen. Hopefully, when
  the pilot's aircraft went into a dive, the pilot would wake up before
S hitting the ground. When Blackouts Allowed is turned on, blackouts are
K possible. When turned off, blackouts will never occur.
I 
D Carburetor Freezes. At high altitudes, it gets very cold. The carburetor
  would often freeze, especially during the winter months. This would cause
R a complete loss of power until the carburetor would thaw out, which could
O only come about if the aircraft was brought to a much lower altitude. When
W Carburetor Freezing is turned on, your plane's carburetor will freeze at
  higher altitudes. When turned off, the carburetor will never freeze.
S 
K Limited Ammunition. The great pilots would fire their guns sparingly,
I closing to within 30 yards and firing a short, decisive burst. This takes
D skill, but it can be mastered. If Limited Ammo is turned on, your ammo
  supply will be limited. If turned off, you can spray the sky with bullets
R for as long as you like, assuming that you guns don't jam.
O 
W Limited Fuel. Most of the aircraft had enough fuel to fly for two and a
  half hours. When limited fuel is turned on, your air time will be limited
S to your plane's fuel capacity. when limited fuel is turned off, your fuel
K supply will be indefinate.
I 
D                               REALISM PANEL:
  
R Real Navigation. When Real Navigation is turned on, you will fly as WWI
O pilots did...without sector coordinates displayed.You will have to
W navigate with the map, and by viewing natural landmarks on the ground
  below. When turned off, your sector coordinates will be displayed on the
S screen. This is useful whn you are acquainting yourself with navigation.
K 
I Aircraft May Be Damaged. When Aircraft May Be Damaged is turned on, your
D aircraft will be susceptible ti damage. When turned off, your aircraft
  will become invulnerable. We recommend the off setting for beginning red
R Baron players only. Your score will be very low if this is turned off.
O 
W Flight Model. Flight Model allows you to select the level of realism your
  airplane can handle. The settings are: Novice, Intermediate, and Expert.
S Novice is the easiest to use, and expert is for experienced pilots.
K       Novice setting: flying is easy, turns are straight forward. If you
I       bank the aircraft, it will turn. Your aircraft will not nose down
D       in a turn.
  
R       Intermediate setting: turning is modelled more realistically. In
O       order to turn properly, you will have to apply back pressure
W       (pulling back on the stick) to keep the aircraft turning and keep
        the nose above the horizon. Some rudder may be needed as well.
S       Unlike Novice, if you bank the aircraft without using back pressure,
K       your turn will degenerate into a slow spiral dive. Landing is also
I       more difficult.
D 
        Expert setting: this will test all of your flying abilities. Not
R       only are turns modelled realistically, but the danger of going into
O       a spin is present. The various quirks of certain aircraft are also
W       included. For instance, the gyroscopic effect of the Sopwith Camel's
        rotary engine will make a simple turn a difficult, tricky maneuver.
S       And, if too much stress is put on your aircraft's wings during a
K       high speed dive, your wings may break!
I 
D Score Factor:
  Mission success, promotions and your placement on the high score listing
R are all based upon your scoring, or point total, at the end of a mission.
O There are two main factors in determining your score after a mission; your
W performance and the score factor. Scoring for mission performance is based
  upon how well you achieved the goals of the mission, how valiant your
S moves were and whether you survived the mission intact. Your overall score
K for the mission is derived by multiplying your mission score by the score
I factor. The score factor is displayed at the bottom, center of the realism
D panel under the overall difficulty heading. It reflects the difficulty of
  the current realism settings. Increasing the number of realistic setting
R on the realism panel will increase your score factor.
O 
W Important! Once you enter the simulation, a 30 second "grace" period
  begins. Any changes to the realism settings must be made before this
S period is up in order for the chagnes to be reflected in the score factor.
K Settings turned on after the first 30 seconds of simulation play will be
I displayed in lightened text to reflect that they were changed after the
D "grace" period and have no bearing on the score factor.
  
R                                  WEATHER:
O 
W From the realism panel you may turn on and off realistic weather. With it
  turned off, there will be no clouds in the sky and there will be a light
S wind blowing eastward.
K 
I The wind will play an important part in your missions. Generally the wind
D gives German pilots an advantage as it usually blows toward the German
  side. This makes it difficult for Allied pilots to fly home when they are
R over German territory. The stronger the wind, the more advantage German
O pilots will have.
W 
  Clouds will add to the complexity of the combat tactics. Diving into a
S cloud is a good way to lose a pursuer. On the other hand, clouds may be
K hiding enemy aircraft waiting to strike. Clouds may also obstruct the sun,
I thus taking away the ability to dive out of the sun on an enemy.
D 
                              YOUR FLIGHT GROUP:
R 
O The group of 1 to 4 aircraft that you fly with is called a flight. Your
W flight will travel together and protect one another.
  
S Formations
K When a flight goes on a mission, it will fly in formation. If you are the
I flight leader, the rest of your flight will fall into formation. The types
D of formations that you may fly include: solo, line, abreast, line astearn,
  vee, box, echelon, and diamond.
R 
O If you are not the flight leader, fly with the rest the formation. Do not
W stray from the rest of your flight.
  
S Flight Leader Commands
K Once airborne, WWI pilots would communicate with arm gestures. As a member
I of a formation, you will be given orders by your flight leader during the
D mission. These will be indicated as a text message that appears on your
  screen.
R 
O If you are the flight leader, you will have the opportunity to give orders
W to the members of your flight. However, keep in  mind that once you enter
  combat your commands will go unnoticed--the rest of the flight will be
S busy keeping their eyes on the enemy. If there are three or more aircraft
K in your flight, some aircraft will make up the "minor wing". The flight
I leader may give orders to the minor wing separately from the rest of the
D flight. With three aircraft, the third aircraft in the formation makes up
  the minor wing. With four aircraft, the third and fourth make up the minor
R wing.
O 
W Flight leader Commands
  
S Drop Below
K Key Command: D
I Order the minor wing to drop about 500 feet below the rest of the fligh.
D This tactic can be used to flush out enemy aircraft. enemy aircraft will
  often attack the seemingly helpless aircraft of the minor wing, unaware of
R the aircraft above them. When they do so, the aircraft above may swoop
O down on the enemy. Be warned that this tactic leaves the minor wing
W exposed. This order will be ignored if the flight is at low altitude.
  
S Join
K Key Command: J
I Order the minor wing to rejon the rest of the flight. If the flight
D descends to a low altitude, then the minor wing will automatically rejoin
  the rest of the flight.
R 
O Attack!
W Key Command: A
  Order the entire flight to attack the enemy.
S 
K Minor Wing Attack!
I Key Command:  M
D Order the minor wing to attack the enemy.
  
R Warning!
O key Command: W
W Alert the rest of the flight that enemy aircraft have been spotted. If
  you issue this warning when there are no enemy aircraft around, the rest
S of the flight will ignore your warnings for the rest of the mission. You
K may issue a warning even when you are not the flight leader.
I 
D                            SIMULATION OVERVIEW:
  
R Red Baron has two play options, Fly Single Mission and Career. Single
O Mission offers you the choice of ten randomly generated mission types and
W allows you to custom tailor your squadron and the conditions of play.
  Career allows you to enlist as an officer of either the German Air Service
S or the Royal Flying Corps. You will fly multiple mission, progressing
K through the war until you are either killed, grounded, or the war ends. In
I career play, you are given much less control over the mission conditions.
D You must earn the right to a command, transfer and change plane types.
  
R Missions in both Fly Single Mission and Career can be recorded and saved
O to disk. These saved missions, or tapes, can then be replayed with the
W Mission Recorder. You can record, save, playback and manipulate any of
  your missions. You can even re-enter a saved mission, completely altering
S the mission's outcome. Altered missions can then be saved to disk for
K later viewing or manipulation.
I 
D On the following pages, you will find in depth descriptions of Single
  Mission, Career, and Mission Record.
R 
O FLY SINGLE MISSION
W 
  The first of the two options of simulation play is Fly Single Mission.
S Single Mission play allows you to tailor many elements of your mission:
K the type of mission you'll go on, on whose side you'll fly, the conditions
I you'll encounter, who you fly with (and against), and the type of plane
D used. Fly Single Mission is the quickest way to get into the simulation.
  You simply select the type of mission you want to fly, set the conditions,
R and play! After your custom mission is completed, you'll receive an
O evaluation of your performance and a score based upon the realism
W settings, goals achieved and number of kills.
  
S Mission Types
K When Fly Single Mission is chosen from the main menu, a new menu will
I appear displaying the types of missions available.
D 
  Fly a Historic Mission
R Relive the great aerial battles of the war
O 
W Dogfight a Famous Ace
  Have you got what it takes to go head-to-head with the might Red Baron
S himself? Find out as you go up against the war's greatest pilots.
K 
I Dogfight a Squadron
D Engage and enemny flight of fighters and try to clear them out of the sky.
  Just remember that they're trying to do the same to your flight.
R 
O Patrol the Front
W Patrol the front and engage any enemy recon or fighter planes that you
  come across.
S 
K Escort a Bombing Raid
I Your bombers are about to penetrate deep into enemy territory to bomb
D strategic targets like RR yards, factories, and supply dumps. It's your
  mission to see that they succeed.
R 
O Stop a Bombing Raid
W Intercept enemy bombers who are trying to bomb your side.
  
S Hunt a Zepplin
K Locate one of these high flying dirigibles and send it down in flames.
I It's best to use incendiary ammo.
D 
  Escort Recon
R Protect a recon plane on its mission to take aerial photos. Enemy fighters
O will be gunning for both the recon plane and you.
W 
  Balloon Defense
S Protect your observation balloons from the enemy!
K 
I Balloon Busting
D Take out the eye's of the enemy. These large gasbags of hydrogen burn
  easily. It's best to use incendiary ammo.
R 
O Fly Single Mission Conditions
W Once a Mission type has been chosen, you will be able to tailor the
  conditions of the mission. The number and type of conditions available for
S change vary from mission to mission. Following is a breakdown of mission
K types and their available options.
I 
D Dogfight a Famous Ace
  After selecting Dogfight a Famous Ace, you will be asked to select the ace
R which you wish to dogfight. Pressing the up and down arrows will scrolling
O through the selection window. As each ace is highlighted, a description
W will be displayed showing the ace's name, alliance, total credited
  victories in the war, and a description of their known tactics. pressing
S the select button will accept the currently highlighted ace.
K 
I Once an ace has been selected, the mission setup screen will be displayed.
D The misison setup screen will display the name of the mission type and a
  text area in which you may setup your mission. In the text area,
R changeable options are displayed as a button in the text. Clicking on one
O will bring up a menu with your possible options. All buttons except those
W on the pop up menu will be inactive when a pop up menu is diplayed.
  
S The following options are available under Dogfight a Famous Ace. Press the
K accept button when you've set the conditions to the desired settings.
I 
D Your Aircraft Type: you may select any anircraft from either side of the
  war.
R 
O The Ace's Aircraft Type: the selected ace will default to his preferred
W aircraft, including any historical markings and insignias. You may choose
  any type for the selected ace.
S 
K Where You Will Battle: you can choose from over the front, over German
I territory, and over Allied territory. It is an advantage to meet over your
D own territory as it's easier to land.
  
R Altitude: it's an advantage to start higher than your opponent. This
O allows you to decide when combat begins. If you want more of a challenge,
W start at a lower altitude than your opponent.
  
S Sun: you may choose the positioning of the sun at the start of combat.
K Your choices are at no one's back, at your back, and at his back. The
I pilot who starts with the sun at his back has an advantage, being able to
D hide in the sun's glare.
  
R Wind and Sky: you may set the weather conditions.
O       Wind: still, light, strong
W       Sky: clear, partly cloudy, cloudy, overcast.
  
S Dogfight a Squadron
K The Dogfight a Squadron mission is similar to Dogfight a Famous Ace,
I except that you may also select:
D 
  The side that you will fight for: you may select German Air Service or
R Royal Flying Corps.
O 
W The number of aircraft in your flight group.
  
S The type of ammo used: you may select between regular and incendiary. In a
K dogfight, it is assumed that regular ammo will be used. This can be
I changed in the Flight Assignments screen.
D 
  The type of aircraft your flight group will use: you will only be able to
R select aircraft available to your selected alliance.
O 
W The formation your flight group will fly in: depending upon the number of
  aircraft in your flight group, you may choose between line abreast, line
S astern, echelon, vee wing, diamond, and box formation.
K 
I The number of aircraft in your opponent's flight group.
D 
  The type of aircraft your enemy's flight group will use: you will only be
R able to select aircraft available to the enemy's alliance.
O 
W The quality of your pilots: Novice, Regular, or Veteran (see below).
  
S The quality of the enemy pilots: Novice, Regular, or Vetern (see below).
K 
I The leader of the enemy pilots: this may be any of the famous aces or an
D anonymous pilot of any quality.
  
R Pilot Quality:
O Novice-just out of flight training. They are the poorest pilots, prone to
W be paralyzed in combat. They often take impossible shots. A novice will
  never use a maneuver in combat. They are the guys with a one in ten
S chance of surviving their first dogfight.
K Regular-Pilot with combat experience. He doesn't make stupid mistakes in
I combat, but does nothing brilliant either. Will occaisonally do some of
D the simple maneuvers: Zoom climbs, wing-overs, and barrel rolls.
  Veteran-a good pilot that flies and fights intelligently. He is skilled at
R many maneuvers and will pose a serious challenge to even the best of
O opponents.
W 
  FLY AN HISTORIC MISSION
S From Fly an Historic Mission, you can choose to fly a famous historical
K air battle. All conditions of this single mission are preset to match the
I actual historic event.
D 
  Once selecting Fly Historic Mission, you will be asked to select the
R historic mission you wish to participate in. Pressing the up and down
O arrows will scroll through the selection window. As each Historical
W Mission is highlighted, text will be displayed describing the mission. In
  the upper right corner of the screen a picture of the famous ace featured
S in the mission will be shown.
K 
I Below the selection window are buttons marked British and German. These
D allow you to decide which side you wish to fly for in the mission. If you
  choose the side that the featured ace flew on, you will take his place in
R the mission. Choosing the other side will pit you against the featured
O ace. The text description of the mission will change to reflect your
W mission, depending upon which side you choose to fly on.
  
S Pressing Begin will start the mission.
K 
I ALL OTHER MISSION TYPES
D This selection describes the conditions available for all missions other
  than Dogfight a Famous Ace and Dogfight a Squadron.
R 
O The side that you will fight for: you may select German Air Service or
W Royal Flying Corps.
  
S The number of aircraft in your flight group: you may select up to four
K aircraft.
I 
D The type of aircraft in your flight group: you will only be able to select
  aircraft available to your selected alliance.
R 
O The type of ammo used: you may select between regular and incendiary.
W 
  The formation of your flight group: depending upon the number of aircraft
S in your flight group, you may choose any of the same fucking formations
K that I have already typed three times! (or was it two?)
I 
D Time: you may select between daytime, dawn, dusk, and night.
  
R Wind and Sky: as above.
O 
W pressing accept will take you to the Mission Assignment screen.
  
S                       THE MISSION ASSIGNMENT SCREEN:
K 
I For all missions except Dogfight a Famous Ace, you will recieve all data
D regarding your upcoming mission from the Mission Assignment screen. From
  the Mission Assignment screen, you will receive the following information:
R 
O The date: the date of the current mission.
W 
  Map reference: there are 5 off line maps (I DON'T HAVE THEM!!!) used for
S navigation in Red Baron. Each mission will require you to use a specific
K map. The name of the map needed is listed below the date.
I 
D Situation: supplies you with any information available on your current
  mission. This will include your orders and any specific goal that you are
R to achieve.
O 
W Mission Plan: the mission plan lists the recommended sequence to carry out
  your mission. This includes necessary map co-ordinates of your starting
S point, your flight path, and where to engage enemies.
K 
I If you are following a flight leader, he will follow the mission plan
D exactly as specified. However, if you are the flight leader, you may come
  up with your own mission plan.
R 
O Weather: gives you a description of the weather conditions in the area
W where you mission will be carried out.
  
S Time: describes the time of day when the mission begins.
K 
I Buttons: Flight Assignments goes to the Flight Assignments screen. Begin
D Mission will start your mission. Cancel returns you to the main menu.
  
R                       THE FLIGHT ASSIGNMENT SCREEN:
O 
W Available from within the Mission Assignment screen, the Flight Assignemnt
  screen gives you a complete breakdown of the settings in your flight
S group. You can change settings for formation, total aircraft in flight,
K your aircraft and ammo. Along with the graphical representation of your
I currently selected formation, you will receive a listing of the position
D for all pilots in your flight. This will indicate the flight leader (this
  will always be you in Fly Single Mission) as well as the skill levels of
R the other pilots. The pilots, and their skill levels, that are assigned to
O fly with you are based upon the historical context and random generation
W of the mission you are flying. This will change with each mission you fly.
  You may also find that you are sometimes assigned an ace to fly as part of
S your flight group. This is dependent upon the mission type, the time that
K it occurs and the known locations of the individual aces at the time.
I 
D Pressing Begin Mission will enter the simulation.
  
R Pressing Realism Panel will bring up the realism panel.
O 
W Pressing Mission Assignment will take you back to the Mission Assignment
  screen.
S 
K                                NAVIGATION:
I 
D Once you have your orders, you'll be required to navigate your way through
  the world. You will be required to find an enemy on many missions, and to
R find your way back to your own aerodrome. To navigate, you will use one of
O the 5 maps supplied with Red Baron. Use the compass to fly on your desired
W heading. To locate yourself on the map, watch the natural landmarks below.
  
S On the realism panel, you may turn realistic naviagtion off. When off, the
K current sector you are in is displayed on the screen. This will make
I navigation much simpler because you will always know where you are.
D 
  How to Fly to a Desired Location
R On some missions you will start in the air near the enemy. On these
O missions, you will not be required to navigate to find the enemy aircraft.
W They will be within visual range. On escort missions, you will not need to
  navigate (unless the aircraft you are escorting are shot down, and you
S must find your way back to your home aerodrome). You will only need to
K follow the aircraft that you are escorting.
I 
D However, on some missions you will start out on the ground at your
  aerodrome and will be required to fly to a specified sector to find the
R enemy. On these missions, the Mission Assignment screen will tell you on
O what heading you must fly in order to reach the sector. It will also tell
W you how far away your destination is.
  
S The abbreviations NNE, ENE, ESE, SSE, SSW, WSW, WNW, and NNW do not appear
K on your compass. You may still fly in these directions. For example, if
I your mission plan instructs you to fly NNE, then line up you aircraft so
D that the compass heading is halfway between N and NE. As you make your way
  through the sector, you should keep an eye on the map and watch natural
R landmarks below. These serve as checkpoints to let you know you're going
O in the right direction and are not off course.
W 
  You need not always fly just by compass. Sometimes it's easier to fly by
S following a river, a road, or a rail-line.
K 
I If you get lost, the first thing you should try to do  is to try to
D determine your present location by looking at the ground below and
  matching up the landmarks against the map. Large, obvious bends in rivers,
R bends in the front, as well as landmarks like cities and aerodromes can be
O used to place your location on the map.
W 
  If you still can't determine your location, find the front (which is
S generally easy), and fly to your side of the lines. Land at the first
K friendly aerodrome that you find. As a last resort, you may land in a
I field on your side of the lines.
D 
                             ENDING THE MISSION:
R 
O QUITTING
W You may quit at any time during your mission as long as your aircraft is
  not fatally damaged and you are not near an enemy. However, you will
S receive more points for landing at your aerodrome. When your mission is
K complete, a message will be displayed asking you if you want to quit. You
I may quit without penalty, however, IF YOU QUIT BEFORE THE MISSION IS
D COMPLETE, YOU'LL LEAVE ANY FRIENDLY AIRCRAFT AND BALLOONS AT RISK!
  
R ENDINGS
O If you crash, you may either walk away with no injuries, end up in a
W hospital, or be killed, depending upon the severity of the crash. If you
  are hospitalized, you will remain there until you recover from your
S injuries. If you land or crash (and survive) in enemy territory, you may
K end up in an enemy prisoner of war camp.
I 
D MISSION REVIEW
  Following every mission will be the Mission Review screen. On it you will
R see:
O -A text description with the results of your mission.
W -Your mission score.
  -How many aircraft from your flight were lost.
S -How many victories (aircraft, balloons, and Zepplins) that you shot down
K  personally, and how many your squadron shot down.
I 
D SCORING
  Scoring in Red Baron is based upon a number of different factors:
R -Successful completion of your mission.
O -Points for shooting down enemy aircraft and balloons. Zepplins are worth
W  a lot of points.
  -Lose points for aircraft in your flight that are shot down.
S -Bonus points for landing at your own aerodrome upon completion of your
K  mission.
I -Your score is multiplied by the score factor, specified in the realism
D  panel.
  
R In any of the missions available under Fly Single Mission, your score will
O determine your standing in the Best Missions listing. In Career mode, your
W score has a great impact upon your ability to advance in rank.
  
S BOARD OF INQUIRY
K If you screw up and shoot down a friendly aircraft during your mission,
I you'll come before the board of inquiry.
D 
  Going before the Board of Inquiry during Fly Single Mission will be
R reflected in your score. In Career mode, the penalties are much more
O severe. While playing a career, the third visit to the Board will result
W in stripping of your wings and permanent grounding.
  
S                                CAREER PLAY:
K 
I The most challenging game play option is to fly an entire career as either
D a German pilot or a British pilot. You will enlist in either the Royal
  Flying Corps or the German Air Service as a fighter pilot. Your career
R will start in Dec 1915, carry you through the Fokker Scourge when
O Eindeckers ruled the skies, and through the end of the war on Nov 10,
W 1918.
  
S As your career progresses, you'll see the advantage swing back and forth
K between the German and Allied pilots as new aircraft are introduced. You
I will have a chance to fly during Bloody April of 1917 when the Albatross
D D.III swept the allies from the air, and in the summer of 1917 to see the
  allies regain the advantage with the S.E. 5 and the Sopwith Camel.
R 
O As a fighter pilot, you will fly many different missions, including
W attacks against balloons, Zepplins, and recon aircraft. You'll also escort
  missions of bombers and recon planes and dogfight against enemy fighters.
S Your total victories will increase when you shoot down enemy balloons,
K Zepelins, and airplanes.
I 
D Of course you greatest challenges will come when you face off against the
  famous aces like Mick Mannock, Rene Fock, and Rittmeister Richtofen. These
R aces are extremely good and they are trying to add you to their total
O victories.
W 
  As your victories mount, you will receive promotions in rank. As a British
S pilot you will start out as a 2nd Lietenant, and may be promoted to 1st
K Lieutenant and finally Captain. As a German flyer, you will start with the
I rank of Leutnant, and may be promoted to Oberleutnant, and finally
D Rittmeister. With greater rank comes more privileges.
  
R As a 1st Lietenant (or Oberleutnant), you will become a flight leader.
O When you start your career, you will not be the flight leader and will
W have to obey your flight leader's orders and follow him in formation. As a
  flight leader, your flight will follow you and your orders. However, your
S flight will size will be small: only you and one other fighter.
K 
I When you are promoted to Captain, you will be given command of flights of
D up to four aircraft. You will also be given a personal aircraft of your
  own choice, which you may paint.
R 
O As your reputation grows, you will have a chance to fly with better
W squadrons. If you are extremely successful, you'll receive invitations
  from the most elite squadrons of the war, including the Storks or the
S Jagdgeschwader.
K 
I You will be awarded medals in recognition of your bravery and gallantry.
D As an allied pilot, the most prestigious award to try for is the Victoria
  Cross. As a German, you will try to attain the order for Merit, or "Blue
R Max". even more difficult to attain is the Red Eagle Order, only awarded
O to Richtofen.
W 
  When you finish your career by surviving to the end of the war, your final
S standing will be displayed. You could end up as a respected ace or as a
K crop duster. The ultimate challenge is to end the war with more victories
I than the historic totals of the famous aces. If you do this, you'll be the
D war's "Ace of Ace's". The highest scoring allied ace was the Frenchman
  Rene Fonck with 75 kills and the highest German was the Red Baron with 80
R kills.
O 
W                                CAREER MENU:
  
S START A CAREER
K You will be asked to select your alliance and to enter the name of your
I pilot. The career roster will track 15 pilot careers at once. If it is
D full, you will be asked to delete another pilot from the roster or to
  cancel.
R 
O Once you've chosen you alliance and your name, you'll be presented with a
W synopsis. You may change at what time during the war you will start.
  options: early, middle, and late. You may also change your alliance or
S your name. Press accept to being your career. Good fucking luck!
K 
I CONTINUE A CAREER
D Select which pilot you wish to continue with. Pressing view while a pilot
  is selected will display the pilot's record.
R 
O VIEW TOP ACES
W Displays the top ten career perfomances to date, ordered by number of
  victories. Pressing view while a top ace is selected will display their
S pilot record.
K 
I RETURN TO MAIN
D Cancels the career menu, returning to the main menu.
  
R                              AERODROME MENU:
O 
W All career play is based from the aerodrome menu. Between missions, you
  will return to the aerodrome menu. From this point you will make the
S decisions that will direct your career.
K 
I FLY NEXT MISSION
D Pressing the Fly Next Mission, you will be given your next assignment and
  will fly the mission. These activities are described in the Fly Single
R Mission section. If you end up in the hospital or prison, time that could
O be used to score victories will be lost. You can lose up to six months if
W you are hospitalized or jailed.
  
S Career mode has a few options that are not available in Fly Single
K Mission. The first is that you may receive medals for your performane.
I Along with honors, you will also be held responsible for your errors. You
D may come before the Board after a mission if you've committed some error.
  The first time you come before the Board, you'll be given a mild
R reprimand. If you commit the same offense a second time, you'll be
O reprimanded strongly. And if you commit the same offense three times, the
W board will strip you wings and you'll be grounded forever!
  
S SQUADRON INFO
K Pressing Squadron Info will show you your current station, the date and
I the famous aces flying with the squadron.
D 
  MAP OF THE FRONT
R Shows the Western Front and the location of the primary Aerodromes. You
O may highlight each earodrome by pressing the left or right arrows located
W on the center, right hand side of the screen. Highlighting an aerodrome
  will display its name and list any squadrons or aces stationed there at
S the current time.
K 
I REQUEST TRANSFER
D You may transfer to squadrons stationed at other aerodromes. This will
  give you an opportunity to fly with other aces in different regoins of the
R front. You'll also be able to face off against different enemy aces on
O your missions depending on which region your in. As you progress in rank
W you'll have the opportunity to transfer to better squadrons.
  
S When you transfer, the map of the western front will be displayed, and it
K will show you where your new squadron is stationed. Once transferred,
I you'll have to remain at your new aerodrome for at least four months
D before transferring again.
  
R PERSONAL AIRCRAFT
O After reaching the rank of Captain or Rittmeister, you will be given the
W use of a personal aircraft. On the Personal Aircraft screen you may view
  your plane, request a new aircraft and paint your plane. The arrow keys on
S the bottom left of the screen allow you to change the view of your
K aircraft. You can zoom the camera in/out and rotate it left/right.
I 
D Press Paint Aircraft will bring up the painting menu. You may paint two
  sections of your aircraft: wings and fuselage. Select which part of your
R plane you wish to paint and then the color you wish to paint it.
O 
W Pressing Request new Aircraft will bring up the Select Aircraft screen.
  Your choices of aircraft will be dependent upon the side you are flying on
S and the progression of the war. As time progresses and the design
K improves, you will be allowed chose more sophisticated craft.
I Note: you must use your current aircraft for at least three months before
D requesting another!
  
R Press Continue to go back to the Aerodrome menu.
O 
W VIEW PILOT RECORD
  Pressing  View Pilot Record will display the current record for your
S pilot. It will display the name and rank of the pilot, what squadron he is
K assigned to, which aerodrome he's stationed at and which aircraft he's
I flying. In addition, it will display his total kills. Also displayed is
D the career score, which is the accumulation of all mission scores, and all
  medals that have been received.
R 
O BACKUP CAREER
W If you have a pilot who is doing very well, you may want to backup his
  status in case he's shot down. After pressing Backup Career, enter the
S name under which you wish to backup the career. If the career roster is
K full, you will be prompted to delete another pilot or to cancel. This
I backup career may be restored from the Continue a Career option in the
D Career Menu.
  Note: a pilot's most current career progress is automatically saved upon
R exiting the aerodrome menu. Backup Career is used to save a serarate
O version of the current career for later restoring. This is useful for
W undoing a mistake you've made in a mission. If you die or perform that
  damages your career, you will have the option restoring the backup career
S and replaying the mission until you are satisfied with the outcome.
K 
I RETURN TO MAIN
D Pressing Return to Main will save your current pilot status and return to
  the main menu. You may later restore this career by pressing Continue a
R Career from the career menu and selecting the pilot on the career roster.
O 
W                             CAREER SEQUENCES:
  
S There are numerous sequences that can occur between missions while playing
K in career mode. You may be promoted, alerted to a new aircraft, moved to
I new aerodromes, transferred to another squadron or challenged by a famous
D ace.
  
R RANK PROMOTIONS
O As your score increases, you will be promoted in rank. This was all
W explained before so go read it!
  
S NEW AIRCRAFT INTRODUCTIONS
K As new aircraft are introduced, you will be notified. If you have the rank
I of Captain, you will be given a chance to exchange your current plane for
D the new one.
  
R MOVING TO NEW AERODROMES
O From time to time, your squadron may be ordered to move to a different
W part of the front. You will be informed of your new station and aerodrome.
  
S SQUADRON TRANSFERS
K In addition to being able to transfer from the Aerodrome menu, you may
I receive special invitations to transfer. Some of the invitations will be
D for a temporary transfer and some will be for an indefinate period. If you
  are transferred for a temporary tour of duty, you'll be transferred to
R your official sqaudron when the tour is up.
O 
W CHALLENGES BY FAMOUS ACES
  Occaisonally, famous aces would issue challenges to enemy aces. If you're
S doing exceptionally well, you may receive a challenge by a famous ace to
K meet at a certain place, at a specified time and altitude to dogfight. You
I may choose to ignore these challenges.
D 
  END OF CAREER
R Your career will end with either your pilot being killed in action or
O surviving to the end of the war (Nov. 10, 1918). If your pilot survives to
W the end of the war, his final standing in history will be displayed.
  
S                              MISSION RECORD:
K 
I Perhaps one of the most exciting elements of Red Baron is th Mission
D Record feature (joy!). With the mission recorder, you can record an entire
  mission, save it to disk and then replay the saved mission. However, the
R ability to save and replay a mission isn't what makes this feature so
O unique. Mission Record will also allow you to change the saved mission.
W You can alter the views, watch the action from nearly any angle and enter
  the simulation again from any point in playback. The changes you make can
S then be saved, played back and modified even further. You essentially
K become actor, producer, and director of your own WWI aerial dogfights. To
I help spread the news of your talent, you can copy the recorded missions to
D floppy disk or transfer them by modem to your friends who have Red Baron.
  They can load the files and admire your handiwork first hand.
R 
O LIGHTS, CAMERA, ACTION!
W The first step in using the Mission Record feature is to tell the game to
  record your missions as you play them. Each time you enter the simulation,
S Red Baron will ask you if you wish to record the mission. Saying yes will
K automatically start the mission record feature. It operates silently and
I patiently in the background while you storm the skies. When your mission
D is over, you will be asked to name and save the recorded mission.
  
R -Naming the file and pressing Save will automatically save the mission in
O  a sub-directory called TAPES.
W -Pressing Cancel will abort the mission save, erasing the recorded mission
   and exiting the simulation.
S 
K IMPORTANT! THE MISSION NAME THAT YOU CHOOSE CAN BE NO LONGER THAN 8
I CHARACTERS. If you type a name longer than 8 characters, the computer will
D cut off the additional characters, saving only the first 8.
  
R INTO THE EDITING ROOM
O Once you have recorded and saved a mission, select Mission Recorder from
W the main menu. This will activate the playback mode of Red Baron. You will
  be shown a menu of all saved missions. Select the mission tape you wish to
S playback and press Load. The tape will load and the Mission Record control
K panel will be displayed.
I 
D   (was a gfx of the panel here, but I can't do it in ansi so you get to
     figure it out for yourself!)
R 
O MISSION PLAYBACK WINDOW
W The Mission Playback Window is where playback of your loaded missions is
  displayed. It will playback the loaded mission exactly as you originally
S played it. The playback window has two modes of display, Edit and Full
K Screen.
I 
D EDIT displays the Mission Playback Window with the Mission Record
  controls covering the bottom half of the screen. Use this mode to edit and
R view.
O 
W FULL SCREEN displays the Mission Playback Window without the Mission
  Record controls. You will see a full screen image of your mission as it
S plays. Use this mode for viewing only.
K 
I TO SWITCH BETWEEN EDIT AND FULL SCREEN MODES, PRESS THE ESC KEY.
D 
  PLAYBACK CONTROLS
R (|<<  box  >  >>|)
O The playback controls operate like any VCR. You can fast-forward, rewind,
W stop, and play. It should be noted that while you can fast-forward
  incrementally, rewind will only rewind the tape to the beginning. You
S cannot partially rewind a tape (THAT'S LAME!).
K 
I LOCATION COUNTER
D (box with numbers in it)
  Operating just like a VCR counter, the Location Counter keeps a running
R mark of your playback position.
O 
W LOCATION SLIDER
  (line with a button somewhere on it)
S The location slider works in two ways.
K 
I   It will act as a visual marker to display movement through the playing
D   tape.
    It will act as a visual fast-forward slider, allowing you to pick the
R   location to fast-forward to.
O 
W To use the location slider to fast-forward, move the slider bar to the
  desired distance into the tape. When you release the slider bar, the
S Mission Recorder will display an on-screen countdown as it fast-forwards
K to the specified point. NOTE: the slider cannot be moved backwards. You
I must use the rewind command.
D 
  ACTIVE CAMERA CONTROLS
R The Active Camera Controls allow you to change the location of the
O playback camera.
W 
    Under the YOURS section, you can move the camera between your cockpit
S   and your plane's external view.
K   Under the OTHERS section, you can move the camera between other plane's
I   external views and an independent world camera.
D 
  The options of SWITCH and INDEPENDENT become active when you have switched
R you camera viewpoint to EXTERNAL. Continually pressing SWITCH will cycle
O you through all the external views of all enemy aircraft in the recorded
W mission. Pressing INDEPENDENT will place the camera free from all aircraft
  movement to be completely controlled by the Movement Controls.
S 
K CAMERA MOVEMENT CONTROLS
I Once the Active Camera has been chosen, the viewpoint can be fine tuned by
D using the Camera Movement Controls. The two arrow pads operate slightly
  differently depending upon where your Active Camera is positioned.
R 
O ACTIVE CAMERA INSIDE YOUR COCKPIT
W COCKPIT allows you to look out the forward, left, right, and back cockpit
  views. EXTERNAL allows you to switch to forward, left, right, and back
S outside views of your plane.
K 
I ACTIVE CAMERA OUTSIDE YOUR COCKPIT
D MOVE allows you to zoom the camera in/out. IN INDEPENDENT mode, it also
  shifts the camera left and right. ROTATE allows you to rotate the camera
R over, under, and around.
O 
W TAPES
  Pressing the Tapes button will bring up the tapes control panel.
S MODE: switches between Director and View Only modes.
K LOAD NEW TAPE: brings up the tape menu for loading tapes.
I SAVE CURRENT TAPE: brings up the tape menu for saving tapes.
D DELETE TAPES: bring up the tape menu, allowing you to delete recorded
  missions. Selecting a mission and pressing Delete will delete the mission
R from the VCR subdirectory.
O DONE: closes the tapes control panel.
W 
  MODE
S The Mission Recorder has two modes of operation, Director and View Only.
K Director mode enables the "save changes" option of playback. While in
I director mode, all changes made during playback will be stored in memory.
D Upon rewinding, loading a new tape, or quitting, the Mission Recorder will
  display a prompt asking if you wish to save the changes made to the
R original tape. View Only mode disables the "save changes" option.
O 
W ENTER SIMULATION
  Pressing the Enter Simulation button at any point in during playback will
S place you back into the simulation. You can replay the mission, making
K whatever changes you desire. When the mission is over, you will be
I presented with the options of seeing a Mission Review based upon the
D changes made or returning to the Mission Recorder. IMPORTANT: changes made
  after entering the simulation will not be saved if you are operating in
R View Only mode.
O 
W EXIT
  Quits the Mission Recorder, returning you to the Main Menu. If you are
S operating in Director mode and have made changes that haven't been saved,
K you will be asked to save or discard your modifications.
I ннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннн
D   Greets: Gee Dee, Reet, Swayzar/Rygar the schizos, Ollie North/ex Skid
  Row, The Omen!, Mallick, Freddy Kreuger and the Bulldog, The Corporal,
R Andeveron, The Company et al, Fairlight (Meg-lo-mania does NOT work on
O 3000's!!!!!!), anyone that buys this game, Zelnik (kill us all!), Scout/ex
W Skid Row and now Crystal, ACK!, and anyone that feels that they deserve
  it!
S 
K   Do us all a favor and do not call any BBS's that have appended texts
I below this point asking you to call them! Mict*/Skid Row!
D