
                     Seven Cities of Gold Users Manual

                        typed by Phreedom Phighter


                            - Introduction -


    Seven cities is a game of discovery.  The instructions in this
file will help you get started by telling you how to create a map disk
and how to make one complete trip to and from the new world. You may thenturn to the manual if you want additional hints and information.
                     - Make a Historical Map Disk -     Boot side 2 of the game disk (i.e., put the disk in drive 1 upside
down and turn on your computer or simultaneouly press open apple, control,
and reset).  Side 2 contains the map you want to copy as well as the copy
program itself, so when you see the message, "insert the disk you want to
copy from and press 'space'...", just press the [space bar].  when you see
the message, "insert the disk you want to copy to and press 'space'...",
insert a black disk.  Continue following the prompt instructions as they
appear (remembering that side 2 of the program disk is the disk you're
copying from) until you see the message "good copy..."

                      - Boot Side 1 of the Game Disk -
     Once the title starts appearing on the screen, you may press the
[SPACE BAR] at any time to complete that process.  When the complete title
is on the screen, make sure you have a joystick plugged in and press
[return].  then press the joystick button to select the highlighted "Play
the game" option.  When prompted to do so, remove the game disk and put
your map disk in the drive, and press the button again to select "Play a
new game".  (If the highlight is not on "Play the game" and "Play a new
game", use the joystick to move it there before pressing the button).
    Finally, use the joystick to move the highlight to the level you want
and press the button.  to play, choose any level except demo.  If this is
your first trip.  Novice level is recommended.

                               - Set Sail -
     Use the joystick to move to the left to your ship.  (hold down the
button to move faster.) at sea, set course (and "automatic pilot") by
pressing the button while you push the joystick in the direction you want
to go.  study the screen border for information about the passage of time
and your status.  note to novices:  set your course due west when leaving
europe and you will soon come to a very interesing island.

                                - Land Ho!  -
     Sail in close and press the button.  Use the joystick to move the
highlight over "drop stuff off" and press the button again.  now use the
joystick to transfer men, food, and goods from the ships to a land
expedition.  (to move all of an item, hold the button down as you move the
stick to the right or left).  When you're ready, move te stick up until
"leave" appears and press the button.

                               - Exploring -
     On land and in villages, pressing the button while moving changes your
speed, pressing it while at rest produces an options menu.  If you choose
the view map option, your position on the map is approximately in the
center.

                                - Natives -
     Villages are marked for movices.  at other levels, you must stand
still and look for the blinking light that signifies a village location.
once inside, look for the chief (who does not move) in the village center,
being careful not to bump into too many inhabitants unless you want to
fight.  if you get to trade, look on the bottom of the screen for
information about prices and how many goods you have.

                              - Return Home -
     Try the court for rewards, your home for a status report, the
Outfitters for new men and supplies, the pub to save what you've
accomplished, then set sail again.

                 - Creating Random Continent Map Disk -
     Start up the program as though you were going to play, then select
"create another world" and follow the instructions as they appear on the
screen.  The creation process can take as long as 10 minutes.

                         - Other Keys to Use - 
[D] - Discovers everything, if you press while in your home in Europe.
[SPACE BAR] - Pauses and resumes the game.  
[CTRL-R] - Restarts game.
[CTRL-S] - Turns sound on/off.
