                              SKID ROW

                              presents

                           SIMCITY GRAPHICS
                          User Documentation
                        SET #1  ANCIENT CITIES

ANCIENT ASIA
Graphics by Mimi Doggett

It is the year 1234.  You are a descendant of a powerful Samurai family.  
You have gone out on your own to found a new city.  You intend to build
your city to greatness and someday become the Shogun over all Asia.

ZONES

To ensure that your city is well designed for both growth and
aesthetics, you decide to design it yourself.  You designate areas
for your subjects to live and work.  The residential areas range in
size and density from small family compounds to large palatial
pagodas.  The commercial areas are filled with everything from
individual shops to huge markets where goods are sold and exchanged.
The industrial areas are primaily farmlands.  Your city's industrial
income may be supplemented by the fishing industry.

Building a harbor will allow fishing, increase your trade, and promote
growth of your industries.  Building yourself a royal palace will
greatly increase the commerce within the village.  You, your royal
family, and your staff and servants, are the prime consumers of the
goods manufactured in your village.

WATER AND POWER

You must provide your village with an aqueduct system for irrigation,
drinking water, and sanitation.  Your ancient Sims won't move into
areas that aren't hooked up to a water source - either a well or a 
water wheel.

TRANSPORTATION

Your Sims travel from place to place by foot, or by horse on dirt roads.
There are also special paved roads/tracks, for rickshaws, which
carry high-density traffic at high speeds.

CRIME AND POLLUTION

In spite of strict and swift punishment of criminals, there is still
crime in your city.  Thieves steal anything from food to precious
jewels.  There are also ambitious citizens who will plot and murder
for enough power to challenge your right to rule.

Pollution is primarily caused by the unsanitary practices of animals
and humans.

DISASTERS

You are still at the mercy of most of the old SimCity disasters - 
earthquakes, floods (Tsunamis), fires, and monsters - plus Chinese
dragon blasts, typhoons, and plagues.

MISCELLANEOUS

   o There will be dragons and huge box kites in the sky once you
     build a castle.
   o Use your plow to clear forests and raze buildings for 
     redevelopment.
   o For entertainment, you can go to the Sumo Wrestling Arena.

ZONE EVOLUTION CHART

Density increases from left to right.
Land value increases from top to bottom.

RESIDENTIAL
            INDUSTRIAL
COMMERCIAL

----------------------------------------------------------------
                    Sumo                         Wall
SPECIAL ZONES       Arena              Palace   
                              Temple   Guard 

        Palace     Harbor    Hospital   Fire    Water
                                        Dept.   Wheel


MEDIEVAL TIMES
Graphics by Joanne Ashdown

It is the year 1491.  Once a pauper, beggiIt is the year 1491.  Once a pauper, begging and stealing for survival,
you struck of on your own in search of fame and fortune.  You are now
the Founder, Lord and Master of your own village.

ZONES

Being a very progressive person for your time, you designate areas for
your villagers to live and work.  The residential areas range in size
and density from small cottages to large estates.  The commercial areas,
filled with shops and sevices, range from individual shops to market
bazaars.  The industrial areas also range in size, and consist primarily
of wind powered wheat grinding and textile production.

Building a harbor will increase your trade and promote growth of your
industries.  Building yourself a castle will greatly increase the
commerce within the village.  You and your royal family, your staff
and servants, are the prime consumers of the goods manufactured in your
village.

WATER AND POWER

There is, of course, no electricity, but your village has an aqueduct
system for irrigation, drinking water, and sanitation.  Your medieval
Sims are very proud of their aqueduct system, and are spoiled enough
that they won't move into areas that aren't hooked up to a water source
- either a well or a water wheel.  Some of your industries use wind power.

TRANSPORTATION

Your main mode of transportation is the human foot, with an occasional
horse on the dirt roads.  There are also small paved roads or tracks,
for horse carts that carry high-density traffic.

CRIME AND POLLUTION

The crime in your city ranges from petty pickpockets to small-time
thieves to highwaymen that rob and murder travellers - they take from
the rich and keep it for themselves.

Pollution is primarily caused by unwashed peasants, badly tended
stables, and the fact that sewers haven't been invented yet.

DISASTERS

You are still at the mercy of the most of the old SimCity disasters -
earthquakes, floods, tornados, and monsters - plus dragon blasts and
plagues.

MISCELLANEOUS

   o There will be dragons and witches in the sky once you build a castle.
   o Use your plow to clear forests and raze buildings for redevelopment.
   o For entertainment, you can go to jousts.
   o Your fire department is a bucket-brigade system using "volunteers" -
     everyone in the village.

ZONE EVOLUTION CHART

Density increases from left to right.
Land value increases from top to bottom.

RESIDENTIAL
            INDUSTRIAL
COMMERCIAL

----------------------------------------------------------------

SPECIAL ZONES
                    Jousting                      Well 
                                        Police 
                               Church    Dept.
      
       Castle       Harbor    Hospital   Fire     Water
                                         Dept.    Wheel


WILD WEST
Graphics by Lee Gaskin

It is the year 1849.  You headed out west to find gold, but after years 
of digging and panning and starving and sleeping in the dirt, you
realized that you'd be better off living in a town providing services
to the ever-increasing miner population.  You decided to start a hotel,
saloon and general store, and try to build it up into a real town -
with yourself as the Mayor.

ZONES

Keeping peace in a frontier town is near impossible.  In an effort
to keep the rowdy miners as isolated as possible from the God-fearing
settlers, and the cattlemen away from the farmers, you designate areas
for your citizens to live, drink, and work.  The residential areas range
in size and density from small farmhouses to bunkhouses to large 
ranches.  The commercial areas, filled with shops and services, range
from individual workshops to big general stores.  The industrial areas
are cattle ranches, which also range in size.

Building a Seaport will increase your trade and promote growth of your
industries.  Digging a gold mine will greatly increase the commerce 
within the village.  You won't exactly make much off the mine itself,
but miners will flock to the mine and spend lots of money in town.

WATER AND POWER

Any town worth livin' in these days has indoor plumbing.  You supply
water to the residences, farms and ranches by means of either a water
wheel or a steam-powered water pump.

TRANSPORTATION

The main mode of transportation in town is walking and riding horses.
You also have the ability to set up a railway using steam locomotives
for those people in a hurry to get somewhere.

CRIME AND POLLUTION

Your Sheriff will have his hands full with cattle rustlers, claim-
jumpers, gold thieves, and all around bad guys.

Pollution is primarily emitted from cattle ranches and slaughter houses.

DISASTERS

You are still at the mercy of most of the old SimCity disasters -
earthquakes, floods, fires, and tornados (twisters) - plus balloon
crashes, giant killer tumbleweeds, and contamination of your water
supply.

MISCELLANEOUS

   o There will be balloons and buzzards in the sky once you build a
     gold mine.
   o Use your plow to clear forests and raze buildings for redevelopment.
   o For entertainment, you can go to the rodeo.
   o Your fire department is a water tank on wheels.

ZONE EVOLUTION CHART

Denisty increases from left to right.
Land value increases from top to bottom.

RESIDENTIAL
            INDUSTRIAL
COMMERCIAL

----------------------------------------------------------------

SPECIAL ZONES                                          Water       
                      Rodeo                            Wheel
                                Church   Sheriff 



      Gold Mine      Harbor    Hospital   Fire      Steam Powered 
                                          Dept.      Water Pump


SimCity Graphics Sets

You are about to take on the challenge of designing and controlling
cities in different times and different places with the SimCity
Graphics Set #1 - Ancient Cities.  This package contains three complete
sets of alternate graphics to be installed into SimCity, The City
Simulator, that transport you back in time.

     ANCIENT ASIA - A mythical mix of ancient Asian cultures and myths.
     MEDIEVAL TIMES - A computerized look at life in the time of
                      castles and dragons.
     WILD WEST - City planning for cowboys, ranchers, and miners.

INSTALLING GRAPHICS SETS

These graphics sets must be installed before they can be used.  Please
see the SYSTEM CARD included in this package for complete installation
instructions.

SCENARIOS

These new graphics sets use the original scenario files that came with
SimCity.  When you load a scenario, it will display the same name
and date in the Edit Window as in the original graphics set, but
the new graphics will be displayed.  The pop-up message window that
introduces each scenario will give you some background on the scenario
in it's new time and place, give a new name, and describe a new 
disaster where appropriate.

THE MODEL

The actual mathematical model that runs in the background does not
change with the graphics sets.  We have reworked the graphics,
disasters, sounds and messages to fix (hide?) as many discrepancies
between a city of the past and a model of the present as possible.

   In spite of our efforts, you will no doubt notice a few 
inaccuracies... uh, well... we did it on purpose.  Yeah, it's a
test.  See how many mistakes... I mean "Incongruent Features"
you can find in each graphics set.
