
       If you have any questions or comments about Sq3 then

           Call:        B I N A R Y     S Y S T E M S           

             Genisis Division                Unknown Division
              (818) 706-8167                  (805) 492-6539                    



                          Solve for Space Quest ]I[

     Well this wasn't that hard for a sierra game but it was 
still fun to play. This solve won't give you all the points but it 
will finish the game.


     First when you get out of the ship go down once and then to the 
right a couple of screens. Stand next to the thing carrying dirt up 
and once it brings you to the top 'stand' and 'jump'. Once your on the 
beam walk to the left until the little grabber thing is right under 
you, climb down and go to the left and make a u-turn. On the next 
screen stop the grabber and push the button, make sure the claw 
lands on the little round thing and brings it up. Take the round 
thing right until you make another u-turn. Right after the u-turn 
stop and push the button again, this will lower the motivator into 
the ship. Now bring the grabber back were you got it from and get 
off on the ramp and fall down the chute. Look at the left wall you 
will see a hole, get the reactor from inside the hole and go up the 
ladder. Now go up a screen and right until your in a tube, grab the 
wires to your left. When I went through this i got attacked by a rat 
if he attacks you go back to were you climbed up the ladder and go 
down, your stuff should be in the hole were the reactor was. Go back 
up the ladder and once your up take the ladder now go back through 
the tube and climb in the eye of the robot in the screen after the 
tube. When you get down go to the right side of the large ship in the 
corner between the wing and the side use the ladder. Climb on top 
and go in the hatch, once inside type 'install reactor' and then 
'attach wire', then go to the pilots seat. Look at the screen, the 
first thing you do is turn on radar then start engine then take off, 
when your in the air go to weapons, put your front shield up and 
fire once. Your ship will be forced out of the tanker.                      

    Now use the navigation map and scan until you find a planet up 
and to the right of you (not the burger place). Go there at light 
speed and this guy will follow you. Once at the planet land, get out 
and go one screen to the left. You should see this weird black thing 
on the roof of the cave, don't get to close or he'll eat you. Now go 
up one screen and then left until you see a big robot in the 
distance, go toward the robot (look out for the little bugs on the 
ground). Once your at the robot go in the shop and show the guy your 
gem. He'll want to buy it, you can sell it for 425. After he buys 
the gem buy everything he tries to sell and leave. When you get 
outside the guy that followed you will catch you, he will give you 
to the count of 10 to get in your ship and leave. As soon as he 
drops you head to the screen with the black thing on the roof of the 
cave. This next part is a little tricky, when your on the right 
screen go around the overhang and wait on the opposite side of the 
black thing, you will see the guys footprints and if you did it 
right he should be eaten by the black thing. Now with the orat on a 
stick that you bough in the shop grab the belt that fell out of the 
black thing, you have to be on the left side of it. Now go back to 
the ship and take off. If you want to you can go to the burger place 
and play Astro-Chicken, it gives you points and if you keep on 
playing I think it gives you a message for help or something. I 
didn't do this and you really don't have to but you get points for 
it any way.

    Now go to the deserted planet on the lower right of the map. 
Once there land and put on your thermoweave underwear you bought 
from the shop. Go to your left twice and then down until you see a 
bridge of land, go over the bridge in the middle or you'll fall off 
when it starts to shake. Now go down one screen and wait for the two 
guys to leave. After they leave go get the pole and the thermo 
detonators that are in the crate. Now go right twice and climb the 
volcano. Once you get in the crater go down the stairs and to your 
right, then climb the ladder to the top. Go to the edge and drop the 
detonator in. Now go back as fast as possible the way you came. When 
you get to were the bridge was you'll have to use the pole to jump 
across the part of the bridge that was gone. Now get in your ship 
and take off. Scan for planets again, you should find one right next 
to were you are. Fly there and land.

    Get out of your ship, make sure your wearing the invisibility 
belt, then go in any direction it doesn't matter. You should see the 
openning to an underground base, when you get a chance turn on the 
belt and 'go in scumsoft', go down the stairs push the button and 
get in the elevator. At the bottom of the elevator go either way and 
keep going until you see another door on the left of the screen. Go 
in this is a janitor's closet, look around closet then leave. Now 
keep going until you see a door to the right of the screen that 
doesn't need a keycard to enter. Go in and use the vaporizer that 
you found in the closet on any trash cans. Be careful some guys get 
pissed if you don't get their trash and call security. Now walk 
around in here until you find the bosses office, get his trash then 
if he is there leave and come back, he should be gone then. Now get 
the card on the corner of his desk and leave his office. Now you 
have to find a picture of the boss, it's to the left at the bottom 
of the screen. When you find it take it and copy it in the 
photo-copier to the left. Put the real picture back and go out the 
door you came in. Keep walking until you find the door on your right 
that needs a keycard to open. Put in the card and hold up the 
picture. Once the door opens go in and type 'push button' to get the 
bridge to go across the crevice. Get right in front of the two guys 
in the jello and use the vaporizer on them. Once they're free you'll 
find out this was a trap, you will be taken to a giant battlebot. 
Use the controls and force your oppenent back to the edge of the 
arena now kick his ass. Once he falls down you'll run to your ship 
and take off.

    Once you get in the air look at the screen and go to battle 
speed. Now go to the pilots view and wait until it says the enemies 
are coming. Now go to battle view. Put your back shield up when they 
attack form behind and your front shield up when they attack from 
the front. When they attack from behind get your aimer locked on to 
them and fire. This part is pretty hard because you have to kill 
enough fighters before your shield goes down and you die but after 
you kill enough the game goes by itself from there.

                                                         The Creator...



