
                            Star Trek: The Game
                              by Jimbo Barber


Star Trek (c) Paramount Pictures Corporation

Software and documentation (c) 1989 by Jim Barber


About these documents:

     You should read this document all the way through before playing the
     game.  It contains important information you will need to get started. 
     There are two other important documents on the disk.  'Hard
     drives\RAD' provides all the information you will need to install
     'Star Trek: The Game' on a hard disk or recoverable RAM disk. 
     'Instructions' contains a complete explanation of the game and how to
     play it.

Your obligation:

     This fine game is Shareware.  Only $5.  Take a minute to think about
     the amount of time I spent working on this, and I think you'll agree
     it is worth the few minutes it will take you to put $5 in an envelope
     and mail it to me.  Thanks!

                     Jim Barber
                     P.O. Box 3414
                     Clearwater, Florida  34630

     This address is also available when in the game, by selecting
     'About...' from the pull-down menus.

Development information:

     This program was written entirely in Benchmark Modula-2, which is
     available from:

                     Avant-Garde Software
                     2213 Woodburn
                     Plano, Texas  75075
                     (214) 964-0260

Special thanks to:

     Timm Martin    For all his technical expertise.

     Leo Martin     For creating the original Enterprise, Klingon and
                    Romulan objects that were used to generate the
                    spaceship graphics.

     Leon Frenkel   Author of Benchmark Modula-2 and president of Avant-
                    Garde Software, for supplying excellent product
                    support.

What this game is about:

     It was my intention to make 'Star Trek: The Game' the best Star Trek
     game ever written for any computer.  It features complete mouse
     control, good graphics, digitized sound and gameplay that only the
     Amiga makes possible.  Is it the best Star Trek game ever created? 
     I'll let you decide.

System requirements:

     Amiga 500, 1000, 2000 or 2500
     Kickstart 1.2 OR Kickstart 1.3
     1 megabyte RAM memory
     2 disk drives

  Options:
     Hard disk drive
     2 megabytes of RAM (sound effects in RAM)
     Works fine with 68000, 68010 or 68020 microprocessors.

Getting started:

     The following are step-by-step instructions for getting into the game. 
     Hard drive owners or those who wish to play the game from RAM should
     also read the document 'Hard drives\RAD'.  Everyone should read the
     document 'Instructions', which explains every feature of the game.

*    If you have a one megabyte Amiga, then you MUST have two disk drives
     to play this game.  If you haven't already done so, please insert the
     second disk in the other drive now.

*    IF you are a hard drive owner and have already brought up your Amiga
     with the hard drive active, then you will need to double-click the
     icon called 'AssignFonts'.  'Star Trek: The Game' uses certain fonts
     found on the first Star Trek disk, and this icon will assign the
     system 'fonts:' directory there.

*    You will notice two icons called 'Pointer1' and 'Pointer2'.  These let
     you choose between the normal system pointer (the arrow) and the
     special Star Trek pointer (StarFleet insignia).  You may choose either
     before starting the game.

*    The large icon labeled 'Sound to RAD' is covered in the document 'Hard
     drives\RAD'.  Please read that before using this icon.

*    'Star Trek: The Game' uses ALL of the 512K of CHIP RAM available in
     the Amiga.  Therefore, there should be NO other programs running. 
     Please stop any other background programs (virus checkers, clocks,
     etc) before you start the game.

*    Double-click on the 'Star Trek: The Game' icon.  A small window will
     open in the middle of the Workbench, asking you to close all Workbench
     windows.  Please close the large window with all the game icons, and
     any other windows that may be open.  This is necessary because this
     game needs ALL the CHIP RAM!  You will notice a small window labeled
     'The Game' the cannot be closed.  Just ignore it.  The game will close
     that one itself.  Once all windows are closed, click the 'OK' gadget
     and the screen will go blank.

*    In a moment, the introductory animation/credits will begin.  Don't
     panic, you only have to watch this once!  It only plays the first time
     you run the game.  Subsequent sessions will go directly into the game,
     bypassing this animation.  If you should ever want to see the
     animation again, it can be reset from inside the game (see the
     'Instructions' document).

*    When the animation is finished, the screen will blank again, and the
     game will load.  It takes a few moments, so be patient.  There will be
     a 5-10 second delay where the screen is blank and the drives stop
     running.  Don't worry, it hasn't locked-up!  It is just thinking.

*    You should now be in the game.  If you are returned to the Workbench,
     then the game was unable to close it.  Stop any other programs that
     are currently running and try again.

*    Read the document 'Instructions', so you'll know what is going on!

Enjoy!


Possible problems:

     These are all the know problems that could occur during the game.  If
     you follow the above instructions, you should never experience these.

* Program locks-up when entering orbit around a starbase.
     This is caused by lack of CHIP RAM.  It will occur if you don't close
     all the Workbench windows.  However, the first thing the game does is
     specifically ask you to close them, so this should never be a problem. 
     If the game still locks-up when entering orbit around a starbase, even
     after rebooting, then some CHIP RAM has been lost somewhere.  In this
     case, you must turn the machine completely off, then back on. 
     Everything should then be fine.

* The Workbench suddenly appears from nowhere!
     This only occurs if another program running in the background (not the
     game) tries to open a window.  Remember, there must be NO other
     programs running when you start 'Star Trek: The Game'!  Make certain
     you have stopped everything else before running the game.




                            Star Trek: The Game
                              by Jimbo Barber

                               Instructions

Assignment:

     You are the captain of the starship Enterprise.  You are about to
     embark on a five year mission.  You may explore freely.  However, you
     will regularly receive orders from StarFleet Command that you must
     follow in order to successfully complete your mission.  You will
     encounter, and possibly combat, both Klingon battlecruisers and
     Romulan warships.

To win the game:

     Survive for five years, and complete all orders given to you by
     StarFleet Command.  Nothing to it...  (heh, heh)

Main screen:

     Once the game loads, you will be looking at the main game screen.  The
     current view out the viewscreen is that of Earth, where the Enterprise
     is in orbit at the beginning of your mission.  There are three buttons
     under the viewscreen.  SCREEN shows the view outside the Enterprise at
     any time.  SCAN shows a short-range scan of the immediate area around
     the Enterprise.  The grid lines represent the 10x10 sector grid inside
     a quadrant.  SCAN displays the current sector position of the
     Enterprise, planets, starbases and any enemy spacecraft.  MAP shows
     the current quadrant position of the Enterprise.  There are 1000x1000,
     or one million quadrants.  The red box highlights the exact quadrant
     the Enterprise occupies.  The numbers given are X,Y coordinates, with
     the bottom left of the galaxy being 0,0.

     The HELM button to the left starts the Enterprise in motion.  When it
     is engaged, it follows the settings given on the NAVIGATION screen. 
     When disengaged, the instructions on the NAVIGATION screen remain
     valid, but the Enterprise stops until the HELM is engaged again. 
     Please note that travel is faster when SCREEN is chosen as the
     viewscreen option.  This is simply because the computer can update
     that display faster than SCAN or MAP.

     The FIRE button on the right lets you fire a weapon that has been
     selected and armed from the WEAPONS screen.  There is a small light on
     the button itself.  When dark, either no weapon has been armed, the
     selected weapon is exhausted or the selected weapon is inoperable. 
     When glowing red, a weapon has been armed and may be fired.

     The text at the top of the screen shows the current Stardate.  The
     mission begins at Stardate 0000.0 and ends at Stardate 5000.0.  The
     text to the left shows the actual speed the Enterprise is currently
     traveling.  The text to the right shows the current average strength
     of the four shields.  It has been placed here for easy monitoring
     during combat.

NAVIGATION:

     This screen lets you set destination and speed for the Enterprise, but
     does NOT actually start the ship moving.  You must engage the HELM
     button from the main screen.

     The display at top, left is a scrolling list of all computer known
     destinations.  If you wish to travel to one of these places, simply
     use the arrow keys to highlight the desired destination.

     Beside and below that are the buttons for the desired speed.  At the
     top is the ORBIT button.  This MUST be selected if you want the
     Enterprise to automatically enter orbit when it reaches one of the
     computer selected destinations.  Otherwise it reaches the destination,
     switches to manual control, and keeps on going!  Speed will
     automatically be switched to impulse when the destination quadrant is
     reached.

     The image of the Enterprise with the arrow keys to the right is manual
     control.  It's primary use is movement at impulse power during combat. 
     However, you may also move around the galaxy on manual control if you
     like.  You must use computer control to enter orbit, however.

     It is important to remember that the speed settings on the NAVIGATION
     screen only define the speed you WISH the Enterprise to travel.  If
     the warp engines are damaged in combat the actual speed may be less,
     and will be displayed on the main screen.  As the engines are slowly
     repaired, the speed of the Enterprise will increase to the previously
     defined setting.

COMMUNICATIONS:

     This screen displays messages to the Enterprise from StarFleet
     Command, planets the ship is currently orbiting or from stations
     inside the Enterprise.  When a message arrives, the small light on
     this button will glow red.  Up to ten messages will be buffered, so it
     is not necessary to take time during combat to read messages, for
     example.  The light will remain red as long as there are messages in
     the buffer.

     Please note that StarFleet Command will issue orders only once!  After
     you have read and acknowledged them, they will not appear again.  Make
     a note if you don't feel you can remember them.

SHIELDS:

     This screen shows the current strength of each of the four main
     shields.  Please note that the shields go up automatically (and red
     alert is called) when the Enterprise sensors detect an enemy ship. 
     They also go down automatically (and red alert is cancelled) when
     sensors are clear.  You may raise or lower them at any time, however. 
     Please note that if you lower the shields during combat (not a very
     bright thing to do), or the shields fail completely, then all enemy
     hits are directly to the Enterprise itself.

WEAPONS:

     This screen controls weapon selection and targeting.  Phasers take two
     shots to destroy an enemy ship, and Photon Torpedoes only one.  The
     Enterprise image with the arrows lets you select firing direction. 
     You may only fire horizontally, vertically, or at a 45 degree angle,
     so it may be necessary to use NAVIGATION (impulse power only) to move
     the Enterprise into firing position.  Remember to use the SCAN button
     from the main screen to see your sector position relative to the
     enemy.

     When you leave the WEAPONS screen by pressing the ARM button, the
     light on the FIRE button on the main screen will turn red, indicating
     that a weapon is ready to fire.  If the light does not turn red, then
     the weapon is either exhausted or inoperable.  You may disarm the
     weapons at any time by returning to the WEAPONS screen and choosing
     CANCEL ORDER.  This will turn off the red light on the FIRE button,
     and the weapons will not fire.  It drains energy from the Dilithium
     Crystals to have the weapons armed, so it is suggested that you disarm
     them after combat.

     The Enterprise can carry a maximum of 9 Photon Torpedoes.  They are
     replenished automatically at any starbase.  Phasers take their power
     directly from the Dilithium Crystals.

ENGINE ROOM:

     This screen displays the current engine status, Dilithium Crystal
     level, and how the crystals are being utilized.  The most important
     information here is the Dilithium Crystal level itself.  If the
     crystals become exhausted (reach zero), then all systems on the
     Enterprise (including life-support) fail.  It is important that you
     monitor their level carefully, and replace them when necessary.  There
     are two Federation Dilithium Crystal mining operations in the galaxy
     (the Enterprise computers will tell you where), and if the crystals
     fall below the critical level (25%), you may get them replaced at any
     starbase.  However, having them replaced by a starbase requires a two
     month layover.

COMPUTER:

     This screen provides important information that you will need to
     successfully complete your mission.  Simply use the arrow keys to
     highlight the subject you want information about, and press the
     COMPUTE key.  Please note that the top selection is always
     '* Nearest Starbase'.  This will compute which starbase is closest to
     your current position.  This is VERY useful when the Enterprise has
     been damaged, or is running low on Dilithium Crystals and must quickly
     reach a starbase.

SENSORS:

     This screen provides information about other objects in the current
     quadrant, such as enemy strength or which planet is being orbited.

DAMAGE CONTROL:

     This screen shows the current operational status of all major systems. 
     Any systems displayed in red are currently inoperable.  If the
     Dilithium Crystals fall below the critical level, a special warning
     will appear here.

     All Enterprise systems are repaired slowly over a period of time,
     while NOT engaged in combat!  These repairs will be reflected in the
     various status displays, and cause a drain on the Dilithium Crystals. 
     Warp drive will be repaired the most quickly, since it isn't much fun
     to move about the galaxy at impulse speed!  All systems are completely
     repaired when the Enterprise reaches a starbase.

TRANSPORTER:

     This screen is crucial to the success of your mission.  You will use
     the transporter to beam objects and people to and from the Enterprise. 
     Use the arrows to highlight the object you wish to beam down or
     aboard, and press ENERGIZE.  If you change your mind, just press
     CANCEL ORDER.

     The Enterprise can carry a limited number of objects at any one time. 
     Also be aware that some planets may require you to beam something down
     to them before they will allow you to take what they have.

PULL-DOWN MENUS:

     The following pull-down menus are available from the main screen by
     pressing the right mouse button.

     * About - The address where you should send your $5 shareware fee. 
     You did send in your shareware fee, didn't you?

     * Reset Intro Animation - This resets the introductory animation so
     the NEXT time you load the game, it will play again.  After it is
     shown once, it won't play again unless you reset it from here.  I did
     that so you don't have to sit through that 60 second animation every
     time you load the game.  Nice of me, don't you think?

     * Load/Save - Load or save your current game to disk.  Please note
     that only the current Stardate and location of all transportable
     objects is saved.  The current status of the Enterprise is NOT saved.

     * Quit - What?  Oh, I guess you still have to eat every now and then. 
     Ok, just come back when you're done.

     * Enemy Strength - You may select how often you are likely to
     encounter enemy ships.  If you are basically a non-violent person, you
     may choose to NEVER encounter an enemy ship.  Pretty easy to win with
     no Klingons pounding away on you, though...

     * Enemy Tactics - During combat, the enemy ships may either sit still,
     or move about.  Having them sit still tests your ability to maneuver. 
     Having them move tests your REAL combat skills!

     * Combat - You never HAVE to fight.  If 'Optional' is chosen, you may
     fight or simply leave the current quadrant.  If 'Mandatory' is chosen,
     then you will NOT be allowed to leave the current quadrant until all
     the enemy ships are destroyed.

     * Regular/Fast Game - You may even control the passage of time.

     * 'Ping' Sound - If the familiar 'Ping' sound of Star Trek starts to
     give you a headache, use this menu to toggle it on or off.  This does
     NOT effect the other sound effects in the game.  Just the 'Ping'
     sound.

     * Sound Effects - Toggle all the other sound effects on or off.


Hints and comments to help you enjoy the game more:

* You never HAVE to fight when you encounter the enemy (unless you've
chosen 'Mandatory' combat).  They will always attempt to engage you, but
you may simply leave the quadrant if you don't wish to fight.  You may also
break off engagement at any time, if you are getting beaten to a pulp.

* When in combat, you will use the following resources:  The HELM button
for starting/stopping the Enterprise.  The NAVIGATION screen for selecting
movement direction (manual control).  You may only do battle at impulse
speed, so always leave the IMPULSE button selected during battle, and use
the HELM button to actually stop/start the Enterprise.  The WEAPONS screen
for choosing the current weapon and firing direction.  Please note that you
have a limited supply of Photon Torpedoes.  And finally, the FIRE button.

* There can be from 1 to 4 enemy ships to battle at once.  The one seen
outside the ship when the SCREEN button is selected is randomly selected
from them.  Therefore, when you destroy an enemy ship, the one on screen
may not blow up.  If you DO kill the enemy displayed on screen, then the
computer will display another, if there are any left.

* The enemy MUST be facing you in order to fire.  When you enter a quadrant
with enemy ships, their current rotation toward you is randomly selected. 
Therefore, you may have plenty of time to maneuver into firing position
before taking hits, or you may get pounded the moment red alert is called.

* You will encounter only Klingon battlecruisers for the first half of the
game, and a combination of Klingons and Romulan warships for the last half. 
Romulan warships have more power, and can cause much more damage than the
Klingons.

* When any one shield fails during combat (0%), it automatically takes some
power from any remaining shield(s).  If any shield fails and can't take
power from another (or you lower them during combat), then the Enterprise
is in danger of taking direct hits.  This is not a good idea, since all the
Enterprise systems are then effected.  For example, after combat in which
the Enterprise itself is damaged, top warp speed may be lessened.  You will
still be able to specify warp 9 from the NAVIGATION screen, but actual
speed may be less.  You may leave the NAVIGATION setting at warp 9, and the
actual ship speed will increase as repairs take place on the warp engines. 
The actual speed at any given time is displayed on the left of the main
screen.

* To pause the game, simply press any of the major function buttons
(NAVIGATION, COMMUNICATIONS, etc.).  When one of those windows is open,
nothing else happens in the game.

* Send in the $5 shareware fee.  You'll feel better.   :^)

