Tower of Babel DOX................


this game is quite simple, but for sum reason it looks
complicated..

The best way to explain the game is to do a run through on it
.........
Your ROBOTS

the zapper is..like it says a zapper...it can kill things
the grabber is a robot that can grab things(like klondikes)
the pusher can push things like blocks..

..................
ok on the main menu you can do several things
play a game
restart a game 
 load/save a game
or construct your own levels
(to load/save a game you'll need to make a tower of babel disk in the
 construction menu)
.....................

ok select play game, this will let you play the games that are given!

pick A for this example(the game is called softly,softly)

do the other shit like ok to continue(its pretty self explanatory!

allright you're ready to play!

you have three robots(sumtimes less on other levels)
Z=zapper, P=pusher, G=grabber

you will be given an objective(like collect three klondikes)
you must complete this task to finish that level..

on the first one you have to collect the three klondikes
(the green things that look like big gold bars)

ok,so what do ya do??

well, simply put, arrange your robots in a way as to get things done/

on the bottom menu you can select the robot you want and move them with
the directional gadgets...the bottom one doubles as a backwards and
the up/down for going up/down the elevators.

to the left of the menu is sum programming tools (use them if ya want)
to program your robots/ select the robot then select the directions and 
functions then push run all..or run/out(first for all, second for one)

if ya mess with these youll figure them out...its quite simple!
(i never use em, you dont have to to play they are just there so you
can program it and then watch the shit(by pressing NSEW on the menu))

ok if ya press pause you see more menus on the top, just like pushing
a right mouse button...look at em and mess with the alternatives)

ok back to the 1st level..
what ya need to do is...........
get them klondikes..!!!
so take your zapper to the top level by going to the
elevator and going to the top..then go to the back and down and kill the
shooter thing(looks like an oil rig for yall southeners)

then go back up and down on the last elevator. move your zapper to the
rear again to fuck with the other shooter..)

ok problem...
if ya take your grabber and try to take the klondikes(by getting in front
of them and pushing fire(for grab), the block will move in the way and
you are fucked..so.....you need to move the block away with your pusher
...take the pusher and go to that last elevator you got off..and push the
block back then simply position your grabber and get them klondikes.
the level is now finished and you'll here a cute little tune.

ok the rest of the game is the same and if your smart you can make new levels
with the constructor...it has all kinds of levels and options!

good luck and if any other problems contact me sumwhere..or on 
a telesis board at

TELESIS SOUTH 713-9600-753  MARTYRIUM
TELESIS NORTH 713-324-2139  DANSE MACABRE

typed by TIGER2xlc...

group members are Nosferatu, \>/inter />\ute and me...

Imported by Midnight Maniac & Mayday 04-90
