THE UNTOUCHABLES DOCS TYPED IN BY ZARCH! - 16/12/89


SCENARIO

Original and diverse arcade-style sections put you in control of Elliot Ness's
elite squad of crime busters. The warehouse bust, the alleyway shootouts, the
railway station confrontation and the final rooftop duel enable you to re-live
the knife-edge existence of Elliot Ness as you crusade through 1920's Chicago
in search of capones retribution.
Take on the mob as you lead the Untouchables on their most exciting and
difficult mission! With six levels of explosive action and a thrilling
denouement.

THE UNTOUCHABLES.....LIVE AN AMERICAN LEGEND.


LOADING

Switch on computer and insert DISK 1 the game will load automatically, follow
all on screen instructions regarding disk swapping.


CONTROLS

The game is controlled by cursor keys or joystick

Space Bar - Fire
Caps Lock - Pause On/Off


STATUS AND SCORING

The following are displayed on screen :-

LEVEL 1
Score, remaining time, percentage of evidence collected, energy, rapid fire and
ammo remaining.

LEVEL 2
Score, time remaining, percentage of liquor collected and energy.

LEVEL 3
Score, time remaining, number of baddies remaining, energy, shotgun gauge.

LEVEL 4
Score, Ness's energy and baby energy. There is a timer displayed in the amiga
version only.

LEVEL 5
Time remaining.

LEVEL 6
Score, energy, gun status and time.


SCORING
Your score is increased by shooting gangsters, collecting violin cases and
ledger pages. Big bonuses are obtained for completing a level, on some levels
a bonus will be awarded for time remaining.


GAMEPLAY

SECTION 1 - The Warehouse

You find out that capones thugs are working in a derelict warehouse, boot-
legging liquor. You bust in on them in an attempt to break up their bonuses,
as some of capones book-keepers are present, and you must take the opportunity
of capturing them in order to gather preliminary evidence of his activities.
You must collect ten ledger pages within the time limit. These pages will be
dropped when you shoot a `ledger carrying' baddy who will be indicated by
a arrow. Violin cases and ledger pages must be collected immediately before
they are removeed.  N.B  Amiga Version - Ledger will remain on screen until
it has been collected.


SECTION 2 - The Bridge

Acting on information gained from the warehouse raid, you attempt to thwart
an illegal liquor run at the U.S./Canadian border. Armed with a tommy gun
you must find the liquor by avoiding and shooting capones henchmen, and
collect it by shooting the bottles. First aid kits may be found on the bridge
and shooting these will boost your energy level.


SECTION 3 - The Alleys

Getting a tip-off from one of the men at the border, you head for the train
station where capone's accountant is trying to leave the country. You must get
to him ( and the evidence ) before the train leaves.
Capones mob hear of your intention and will try anything to thwart the
untouchables mission. As you progress through the streets of chicago, on your
way to the train station you are confronted by ambushes at every turn. You must
eliminate all of your attackers before you can safely reach the station.
Character can be changed when you are hiding behind the wall by pushing up or
donw on the joystick; untouchables not in use will regain energy unless they
are dead. Moving the joystick left or right, depending on the alley, will
allow you to look into the alley; moving the joystick again will allow you to
swing into the alley and shoot or go back into hiding.
After firing twice you will automatically go back into hiding to reload 
your weapon.


SECTION 4 - The Train Station

As Ness awaits the arrival of the accountant, he helps a woman lift her baby 
in a pram up the stairs of the railway station. Before he reaches the top - 
Capone's accountant arrives with an armed escort and opens fire. He lets go 
of the pram and starts to fire back.
You must guide the pram to the bottom of the concourse avoiding enemy fire
and any obstructions. You must also avoid shooting any innocent by-standers
as you try to destroy capones men.


SECTION 5 - The Hostage

Realizing he is the last one left in the station, one of capones hencmen takes
the accountant hostage at gunpoint and threatens to shoot him if you do not
lay down your arms. You must shoot him within the time limit, scoring a
perfect fatal hit, if you are to suceed.


SECTION 6 - The Rooftop

With the evidence all collected, capone is in court for the trial. His head
hitman, Frank Nitty, is still at large however, and you must chase him across
the court rooftop and avenge malones death. This is the final and bloody
shoot out which, if successful, will result in Nitty falling to his death.
To reload your gun move back into hiding and press fire on your joystick.
Shooting objects such as plant pots may give you extra time and energy.


HINTS AND TIPS

Learn map layouts for increased manoeuvrability.

Try not to hang around too long on and level. Keep moving.

Learn how the mobsters act, to devise suitable tactics against them.

Switch between you Untouchables quickly if one is low on energy.


CREDITS

Programming by Frank Robinson & Ian Moran
Graphics by Andy Rixon & Karen Davies
Music by Kieth Tinman & Johnathan Dunn
Docs Typed In by Zarch!

16th December 1989 - Merry Christmas!





