
                              SKID ROW

                              presents

                       WARGAME CONSTRUCTION SET

AMIGA Data Card

Before you begin:
Before beginning play, make a backup copy of your disk.  Set aside the
original and play on the copy.

System Requirements:
WarGame Construction Set requires 512K of system RAM.  The mouse is
required for the game to run.  WarGame Construction Set is self-
booting only.  You cannot boot from CLI, Workbench, nor can you install
the game to your hard drive.

Playing the game:
    - Turn on your computer.
(Pause)...More(y/n/ns)? 
    - Insert your Kickstart Disk (AMIGA 1000 owners only).
    - When requested to insert your Workbench disk, please insert the
      game disk.  The game will auto boot.

Editor Differences:
There are now ten options for the editor.  They differ from the rules
as follows:

1.       DISK ACCESS
         This option allows you to save or restore scenarios.  Delete games
         will delete a game scenario on the disk.  Start game is used to
         choose starting game scenario.

2.       DRAW MAP
         The mouse buttons are defined as:
         Left    - Place terrain icon on map
         Right   - Select terrain icon from current map position

         The following keys are defined as:
         F1      - Select terrain icon
(Pause)...More(y/n/ns)? 
         F2      - Place terrain icon on map
         F3      - Select terrain icon from current map position
         F10     - Wood auto edging (or click upper right corner gadget)
         DEL     - Clear terrain on map

Arrow gadgets or keypad will scroll map in all options which diplay
map.

3.       DEPLOY UNITS
         The mouse buttons are defined as:
         Left    - Place a unit on the map
         Right   - Select unit from current map position (1st click)
         Right   - Delete selected unit from current map position (2nd
                   click)

         The following keys are defined as:
         F1      - Select unit icon
         F2      - Place unit icon on map
         F3      - Select unit icon from current map position
         F9      - Delete selected unit
(Pause)...More(y/n/ns)? 
         F10     - Show terrain under units (or click upper right corner
                   gadget)
         DEL     - Delete all units

4.       EDIT MAP COLORS
         You may edit colors with keyboard or mouse.  To edit with keyboard
         press R, G, B and edit colors with arrows.  To edit with mouse
         press R, G, B and edit with mouse.

5. & 6.  EDIT UNITS
         Select the statistic you wish to change.  Press the + key to
         increase the chosen value, or the - key to decrease it.
         F1 and F2 will increase and decrease the value by 10,
         respectively.  To duplicate a unit, select DUPLICATE and type
         the number you wish to copy.  CANCEL removes all changes made
         to a unit's statistics.  F3 allows a name for a unit to be
         entered or changed.  A name can be up to 10 characters long.
         NEXT allows you to proceed to the unit with the next higher
         number.  PREVIOUS takes you back to the unit with the next
         lower number.
(Pause)...More(y/n/ns)? 

7. & 8.  PRINT MAP AND CHOOSE SCALE
         No changes have been made.

9. & 10. ARTILLERY/SOUND
         These options allow you to turn the Artillery/Sound On/Off.

                               SKID ROW





The WareHouse [1:The WareHouse] Menu (51 mins. left): 