                             Rick Dangerous 2

                          docs typed by MERKWooD

The Adventure continues...

Back In A Flash And As Fearless As Ever!

Rick Dangerous, intrepid Super Hero and part-time stamp collector is back after
having tackled the Fat Man in his first great adventure. The Fat Man has
returned and Rick must once again do battle to save the Earth from villainous
aliens. If he survives the first part of the mission in the space ship at
Hyde Park, London, Rick will face new hazards in the Ice Caverns of Freezia,
the Forests of Vegetablia, the Atomic Mud Mines and, finally, confront the
Fat Man at his headquarters on the planet Barf.

RICK IS EQUIPPED WITH:

Electronic Detonators - These may be dropped in order to trigger traps, blow
away walls, enemies and generally do lots of damage, allowing our hero to
continue his quest. Being very dangerous, Rick must get away from them if he
is to avoid being blown up! These have the added advantage of being able to be
slid by Rick across the floor and over edges.

The Big Punch - Rick has his two fists, guaranteed to momentarily stun any
enemy. He can also punch switches on walls to trigger lifts, open trap doors
and switch off lasers.

The Raygun - ...this fires laser bolts! There is no limit to the number of
shots that the gun holds. There will be the occasional container that Rick
can pick up, enabling him to replenish his supply. Use the ammunition wisely.
Remeber that the ray gun can be used to activate some traps as well as to
shoot the enemy.

Anti Gravity Bike - Occasionaly, Rick will come across an Anti Gravity Bike
Park. Rick can then jump on an Anti Gravity Bike and float around the corridors
avoiding traps on the way. The Anti Gravity Bike is equipped with a forward
firing laser cannon with which Rick can dispatch aliens and trigger traps.

Traps - To avoid traps be resourceful. The traps are devious. Rick may need
a punch, ray gun, electronic detonator or simply his wits to survive, depending
on the nature of the trap. There are no instructions as to how each trap is
triggered or avoided so be careful and think ahead. Things are not always as
they seem...

One Last Thing...Once he manages to complete a level, Rick's supply of laser
bolts and electronic detonators will be automatically replenished and Rick
will gain an extra life before starting the next level.

Keyboard Controls:

SPACEBAR     Colour on/off (pressing the spacebar while the title screen is
                            displayed will turn the colour off, for that
                            realistic 1950's look!)
ESCAPE       Quit to start
P            Pause on/off

Joystick Controls:

joystick position          without fire button         with fire button

up                         climb/jump up               shoot ray gun
up/right                   jump up right
right                      walk right                  punch
down/right                 crawl right                 arm and slide
down                       climb down/duck             drop detonator
down/left                  crawl left                  arm and slide
left                       walk left                   punch
up/left                    jump up left                

