                            BEVERLY HILLS COP

Typed in by VIKING. Edited by PARASITE.


 Axel is a loud mouth cop down from L.A. He's now in Beverly Hills trying
 to stop Victor Maitlin from his drug trafficing & he has to save his
 friend! Your going to have to help him!

 Level 1....
 Help Axel get through the warehouse buy shooting the people and keep
 travelling right. Dodge the baddies bullets. You can shoot in a wide
 variety of angles but pressing your joystick button and holding the stick
 in different directions. The hearts in the lower left hand corner are your
 life. As you get shot, the blood slowly (Or quickly!) run out of these
 hearts. When one is completely empty, that's one life gone! You will see
 land mines roll along the ground, you can pass these by shooting them or
 by walking past them while they are still rolling but when they are
 stationary on the floor in front of you, the only way of getting rid of
 them is by shooting them.

 Level 2....
 Drive Axel along the highway, trying to stop the cigarette truck. To do so,
 you have to line up behind the truck and shoot at it. In this level, your
 Joystick button shoot's again and the forewards speeds the car up and
 backwards on the stick slows the car down. Left and Right steer the car in
 the different directions. When you are shooting the truck, a brown spot
 on the truck indicates that you have hit it. Once you have hit it several
 times, it's gone. But thats not the only truck. Also watch out for boxes
 dropping out the back of the truck. You only have a certain time limit in
 which to do this (A timer is displayed on the bottom right of the screen).
 If you get of-road, you only have 10 seconds to get back on to the road
 else you've had it!

 Level 3....
 Walk Axel around. Try to find your way into Victor Maitland's house. This
 level the joystick directions control Axel's gun target. When the target is
 to the left of him, he will walk left and so on. To shoot the baddies, aim
 your target at them and press the joystick button to shoot. If Axel gets
 shot too many times, that's another life lost. You only have a certain time
 limit in which to do this in so HURRY!

 Level 4....
 Move Axel around Victor's house by pointing the joystick in different
 directions. Once again the button is to shoot and the [Z] and [X] keys are
 to turn Axel around to face North, South, East or West. As you walk around
 you can see the walls appear on the map. Shoot the baddies when they are in
 front of you. You can see your energy meter on the right of the screen.
 Once this is completely down, that's another life lost. Try to find Axel's
 friend, when you see her, walk up to her to save her. Then find Victor and
 shoot him, now all you have to do is get out!

 When is ask's you "Do you want to repeat this game (Y/N)" you can repeat
 that level and try to get better at it or try to get a better score.
