                                DESTROYER

Typed in by ???. Edited by PARASITE.


First choose one of the 7 missions, from introductory to advanced scenarios.
Then choose the difficulty level - easy, medium or advanced. You will then
receive your orders and a description of the scenario you're to encounter.
Press the fire button to begin the mission.

MISSIONS:
1.  SUBHUNTER - use Sonar, Depth Charges, Navigation.
You're to seek and destroy an enemy submarine that has been sighted in your
patrol area.  Use your sonar to track the enemy submarine while maneouvering
towards it.  When your ship is above the submarine, attack with depth charges.

2.  SCREEN - use Radar, Anti-Aircraft Guns, Navigation.
Your task force has been positioned south of you.  To the north are a large
number of enemy aircraft heading towards your carriers.  You must protect
them at any cost.  Your radar will give you warning of the airplanes before
they are on you, so you can ready the Anti-Aircraft guns in time to defend
yourself.

3.  SCOUT - use Sonar, Radar, Weapons Systems. (dependant on enemy encounter)
An important convoy must cross a treacherous strait.  You are to scout the
intended route for enemy patrols.  You will be notified as you reach each
check-point.  Maintain radio silence until you return to base to make your
report.  Avoid combat to keep the enemy guessing as to your intentions.

4.  BOMBARDMENT - use Surface Guns, Radar, Anti-Aircraft Guns, Navigation.
The marines are landing. You must shell key parts of the island and maneouvre
close to the beach to search for flashes of enemy gun emplacements.  Silence
them with your main guns, avoid the return fire, and destroy any enemy
aircraft threatening the invasion beaches.  A combination of good radar
operation, keen lookouts and sharp shooting will be necessary to protect the
amphibious assault.

5.  BLOCKADE RUNNER - use Surface Guns, Torpedoes, Radar, Sonar, Navigation.
One of the small island outposts has been surrounded by enemy forces.  The
garrison requires certain critical supplies in order to hold out.  You are to
run the blockade.  All stations must operate at full efficiency as you will
be facing multiple threats from ships, submarines and fighters.

6.  CONVOY ESCORT - use All Systems.
You have been assigned to lead a slow merchant convoy to a beleaguered
outpost, deep in enemy territory.  Your assigned position is the LEFT front
sector of the convoy's advance, other ships will be assigned to the other
areas.  It is your responsibility to run interference for those ships and to
see the convoy safely to harbour on time - regardless of enemy action.

7.  RESCUE - use All Systems, Pilot Signals, Enemy Guns.
A friendly pilot has been shot down in your area and made it to a small chain
of island.  You must rescue him soon (his signal beacon is rapidly getting
weaker) and get him back to base.  As his position is behind enemy lines,
speed and stealth are very important.  The pilot will signal SOS with a
mirror when he sees you approach, but beware - that flash may also be enemy
gunfire.

CONTROLS:
To make control easier, all controls have been separated into stations.
Each weapon type and sensor has a station, along with the Bridge and Damage
Control. All stations are shown on different screens, accessed by typing in
the two letter codes and then pressing RETURN.

        Letter:         Station:
        BR              Bridge
        NA              Navigation
        OB              Observation Deck
        RA              Radar
        SO              Sonar
        GF, GA          Guns Forward / Guns Aft
        AP, AS          Anti-Aircraft Guns Port / Anti Aircraft Guns Starboard
        TP, TS          Torpedoes Port / Torpedoes Starboard
        DC              Depth Charges
        DA              Damage Control

There are two additional codes to be used in particular circumstances:

        TR              used at the Surface Guns station to activate the
                        Targetting Radar
        AB              When all else fails - Abandon Ship!
