                                FLIGHT PATH 737

Typed in by ???. Edited by PARASITE.


SKILL LEVELS:

Level 1         - SOLO
Mountain Height - 5,000ft
Runway Length   - 3.0 miles
Notes           -

Level 2         - TRAINING FLIGHT
Mountain Height - 6,000ft
Runway Length   - 3.0 miles
Notes           - Engine Fire

Level 3         - CERTIFICATE
Mountain Height - 7,000ft
Runway Length   - 2.5 miles
Notes           - Smoother landing required

Level 4         - DOMESTIC
Mountain Height - 8,000ft
Runway Length   - 2.0 miles
Notes           - Cross winds on landing approaches

Level 5         - EUROPEAN
Mountain Height - 9,000ft
Runway Length   - 1.8 miles
Notes           - Cross winds and engine fires

Level 6         - INTERNATIONAL
Mountain Height - 9,200ft
Runway Length   - 1.5 miles
Notes           - Cross winds, turbulance and engine fires

Flight Notes - Levels 4, 5 and 6 require reverse thrust on landing. The
higher the level you select, the quicker you must climb from the moment of
lift off. Use the Rate Of Climb Indicator and the best climb speed (420
knots) to clear the mountains. Move the mouse slowly for maximum flight and
speed control. At level 4 the cross winds are strong. Fly low to minimise
their effects. Cruising height of 15,000ft until a distance of 14 miles from
the runway.

FLIGHT INSTRUCTIONS
Start the engine by activating the Ignition. Ensure that the brakes are off,
and the Flaps are down. Note the RUN/HDG which shows the difference between
the runway heading and the aircraft heading and reduce it to 0 by moving
left/right. When it reads 0 you are correctly lined up for takeoff. Increase
speed to 180 knots.(Above 200 knots will damage the Flaps) Lift the aircraft
nose, and once above 300ft retract the U/C and raise the Flaps. You must not
allow the speed to fall below 180 knots. (Flaps up Stall speed)

CLIMB
Having raised the U/C and Flaps, you may increase speed and climb above the
mountains. A Red high Ground Warning (GW) will flash as you approach the
mountains. It will go a steady Blue when you have safely cleared them.

CRUISE
During your short cruise, the Landing runway heading will flash. Bank the
aircraft to reduce the heading reading to 0. You are now ready to start
your descent.

DESCENT
With the ground warning light out and 25 miles to touchdown, move the mouse
UP to start your descent. The aircraft speed will increase as you bring the
nose down, so keep it under control. At 14 miles to go at an altitude of less
than 200ft, if your heading is within +/- 5, you will see the runway in the
distance.

LANDING APPROACH
At 10 miles to touchdown, the H/L warning indicator will light up. If it is
white, you are too high. If red, you are too low and will crash before
reaching the runway. A green light signifies a correct rate of descent.
Before descending to a height of 300ft, you must lower the U/C and put the
flaps down. Lowering the U/C reduces the speed by 5 knots, and the flaps
will be damaged if the speed is higher than 200 knots.

LANDING
Keep the speed between 160 (Flaps down Stall speed) and 170 knots. Keep the
plane level, and the heading between +/- 5. When the distance shows 0 and
not before, bring the aircraft down to 0 altitude. Land, and bring the speed
down to below 20 knots, finally stopping before the end of the runway. At
higher levels, you will have to use reverse thrust to bring the speed down
on the shorter runways. Don't forget to use the brakes, but beware of
severe juddering.

SCORE
If you make any errors in your aircraft handling, you will be told exactly
where you went wrong, together with advice on whether to procede to the next
level. The faster you fly then the higher the score.

FUEL
You always have enough fuel for ONE attempt at landing on each flight.

ENGINE FIRE
An engine fire alarm is raised by the flashing of the fire icon. As soon as
the alarm is raised, activate the icon to extihguish the fire otherwise a
severe loss of power may result.
