                        GAMES & ADVENTURE GAMES HINTS

Typed in by VIKING of DV8. Edited by PARASITE.


 Kick Off : Save the league when you're on top. Then when you re-load you
 only have to play one more game to take the championship.

 Faery Tale : Head for the crystal palace with your first character, Julian.
 When you see the good witch, click on ask. She will give you a gold statue
 and a clue. Now keep clicking on ask and your luck will rise to a maximum
 of 65. This means you are almost impossible to kill, and you can repeat the
 process at any time.

 Falcon Mission Disk : Press [X], [SHIFT] & [CTRL] to reload all your
 weapons.

 Paperboy : 250 points are scored for hitting a target. On the target
 course, ride flat out - do not slow down. Use your papers to hit only the
 targets - no points are scored for hitting the orange blocks with your
 papers. Riding your bike over the ramps with replenish your supply of
 papers. If you complete the target course in time, the remaining time will
 be converted to bonus points and added to your points total.

 Deja Vu 2 : Leave the Hobo alone, he's a red herring! To enter the building
 go downstairs and shoot the lock, or pick it with the pocket knife.

 Personal Nightmare : Take the bugle from the bar when it's closed, and
 play it when the tin soldiers appear.

 Legend Of The Sword : The worm can only be killed with spears, but it then
 blocks the tunnel. Leave it well alone! To enter the cell in the trolls
 cavern, get arrested by leaving the iron gates open. Search the trolls
 house thoroughly for the key to the gates. To take the boat, block the
 door of the house by the lake with the body of a humanoid.

 XENON II :

 Level One....
 Shop A : Buy health if needed
 Shop B : Sell rear shot, buy double shot, buy side shot.
 Guardian B : Shoot at eye. Stay at the bottom of the screen, and push down
 if necessary to avoid the mines, but do not do so when trying to shoot the
 eye as your range is very limited. Try to move in close and strike when the
 guardian's toungue is retracted.

 Level Two....
 Shop A : Buy health if needed. Only but side shots if you bought one on the
 previous level.
 Guardian A : Move up and left and wait to all of the guardian has appeared.
 Shoot one of the eyes and then stop firing. Now manouvre directly above one
 of the tubes. As soon as you get a chance, shoot the second eye. When the
 screen starts to scroll downwards, stay slightly up to avoid the worms that
 come out of the tubes at the bottom of the creature. Dodge any worms that
 do get in your way and shoot the final eye.
 Shop B : Sell side shot. If you have enough money sell your canon to help
 finance buying two lasers. Buy one or two lasers. Buy power-up. Buy health.
 Guardian B : Shoot the wed-like barriers on the left and right and move up
 the side of the spider. As soon as the spider moves, follow it. Move into
 a position directly beneath the spider and shoot it in the mouth. When it
 dies, go down and collect the cash as it falls.

 Level Three....
 Shop A : Buy power-up. Buy health if needed.
 Guardian A : Shoot in the eyes with a laser.
 Shop B : Sell rear shot. Buy laser. Buy power-up. Buy side-shots. Buy
 health if needed.
 Guardian B : Move left and wait for the snake to appear. Shoot it's head
 constantly with a laser. When he goes into a hole move to the right and
 wait. As soon as it emerges start shooting again.

 Level Four....
 Shop A : Buy side shots. Buy health. Buy Nashman.
 Guardian A : Avoid the fireballs and move left. Shoot smaller heads with
 side-shots then shoot its tail with a laser. Move down and then sweep back
 and forth across the screen while shooting at its head with lasers.
 Shop B : Buy laser. Buy power-up. Buy health. Experiment with some of the
 new weapons.
 Guardian B : Avoid the creatures toungue and move to the top left of the
 screen. Shoot its eyes with side shots and move as far up as possible. The
 creature will now re-position itself where it can easily be killed with
 side shots.

 Level Five....
 Shop A : Sell everything and buy it back at a profit. Buy extra lives with
 the remainder of your cash.
 Guardian A : Shoot the smaller turrets with your lasers then go for the
 main turret.
 Guardian B : Shoot the boosters with your lasers then shoot the smaller
 turrets with your side shots. Destroy the laser beamers. When all of the
 turrets have been destroyed move down and strike at the bottom centre.

ARCHEPELEGOS
Complete levels one and two (easy!), then press RETURN and type in 8421
and press RETURN again and you can now select any Archipelagos you want.
Try some of these: 5942, 642, 3467, 2044, 9867, 3410.

I was a little dissapointed in Archipelagos 9999, I felt it was much too easy.
Anyway I have kept note of what Archipelagos I am actually up to, because one
day I will be able to say that I have completed all of them.
