                                        KULT

Typed in by ???. Edited by PARASITE.


YOUR MISSION:
Take part in five ordeals, if you want.
Find your friend Sci Fi.
Smash the protozorq plot before it's too late.

HOW TO PLAY
To freeze the game momentarily, press ESC key; to restart, hit any key.

The Master of Ordeals (a Protozorq in a fetching mask) will hand you an
object which could come in handy! Then he'll instruct you to go to a
specific Ordeal. You can obey if you want, Raven.

The Ordeals have begun and you have 1 hour to finish all five, should
you decide to take part. If you have placed 5 Vort Skulls in the Changer
within the time-limit, you will have won the highest honor awarded to any
Offa: to be a Divo! Failure, on the other hand, will result in something
too disagreeable to discuss at this time.

USING THE MOUSE
CONFIRM (with click or space bar) to activate your cursor. The indicator,
at bottom right, will flash to authorize your CONFIRMation when it's
your turn to act.

MOVE the cursor with the mouse or the cursor keys. A text zone, at
bottom screen, will translate what you explore as your cursor moves.
When exploring, make sure you take in everything.

THE MOUSE CURSOR
The cursor turns RED when situated on valid zone, and changes shape
according to the kind of actions you can do.

Circle with rays:.........basic cursor. There is nothing special here.
Finger:...................use this cursor to choose ideas on your brain.
Crossed arrows:...........indicates possible exits.
Arrows in circle:.........indicates something to look at or manipulate.
Human figure:.............character to select or act on.
Emptying goblet:..........a full goblet ready to be emptied.
Fly:......................move this to precise area where you wish to go
                          with "sticky fingers" power.
Open hand:................place this on what you wish to manipulate with
                          "psy shift" power.

CONFIRM (click or space) when the cursor is on an element or character
on whom you wish to act (inspect, talk to, attack, etc.). The BRAIN
will then appear. This is your Tuner grey matter. It's full of ideas.
They're in bubbles placed around the brain's surface. The ideas are
those which come to mind in a particular situation.

MOVE THE CURSOR from one idea to another. At bottom right of your
screen, a text zone translates the idea.

CONFIRM any idea you'd care to try.

THE ICONS
On the right-hand side of your screen you'll find the icons you'll need
for play. From top to bottom:
                    ___
                 1 |___|
                    ___    ___
                 2 |___|=>|___| A
                 3 |___|  |___| B
                 4 |___|  |___| C
                 5 |___|  |___| D
                 6 |___|  |___| E
                 7 |___|  |___| F
                 8 |___|  |___| G
                 9 |___|  |___| H

1. OBJECTS IN THE ROOM: (the icon changes color when an object is
available in the current room.) Confirm this icon to open a window
containing any objects available for taking. If you leave an object
somewhere, you'll be able to pick it up again any time you come back,
unless someone else has decided to take it in the meantime! The window
won't display if no objects are available in the room.

MOVE the cursor over the objects. The identity of each is given in the
text zone at bottom right.

CONFIRM to manipulate the object of your choice.

2. PSI POWERS:
Confirm this icon to access the 8 powers you have trained long and hard
to master! These Tuner powers will give you the winning edge in many
situations. Be careful not to flash them around, though, since they'll
prove that you're a Tuner, and no one likes Tuners! Each time you use a
power, your psi-energy reserve will diminish, and who knows if you'll
be able to stock up in this damn Temple!

A. SOLAR EYES.     Switch on this super-vision power to see in the
                   blackest darkness. It sure beats eating carrots.

B. STICKY FINGERS. If you've ever dreamed of walking on walls, now's
                   your chance! Just confirm this power and choose where
                   you want to go with the cursor.

C. KNOW MIND.      Check out what that character over there is really
                   thinking! Put the cursor on him (or her) to get the
                   inside story.

D. BRAINWARP.      How to turn someone helplessly Moronic! Stupidize
                   your enemy by putting the cursor on him. Unfortunately,
                   it only lasts a second or two.

E. ZONE SCAN.      It so happens that some things are invisible to the
                   naked normal eye. Zone Scan will tell you if anything
                   is hidden in a particular room. These guys didn't
                   reckon on a Tuner nosing around!

F. PSI SHIFT.      Move small objects just by looking at them! Protozorqs,
                   unfortunately, don't count as small objects.

G. EV.             That means Extreme Violence. This Psi Power turns you
                   into a crazed killer! Just choose your unsuspecting
                   victim with the cursor and then tear him apart. Lovely.

H. TUNE IN.        You old teacher Gromek explained it this way:
                   Development of the Hitachi-Gauss Amplifier led to
                   perfecting of the Syntonization technique where the
                   unconscious psychic emanations resonating from the
                   subject are sorted and regulated by the Gauss. At the
                   subject's request, the Amplifier should normally be
                   in a position to provide the basis for a solution,
                   that is to say, the beginnings of a satisfactory way
                   out of a worrying situation, thanks to an analysis
                   based on the results of the harmonization of psycho-
                   energetic oscillatory phenomena. To put it a little
                   more clearly, you can use this power to make the
                   Gauss give you an idea for getting out of a jam!
                   Since you're not an Encom, however, his messages may
                   seem strange. This is normal.

3. WAIT: If the best thing to do is just to wait a while, then confirm on
this icon. Time will pass. The wait will stop after a certain time or
if something happens.

4. YOUR OBJECTS: Confirm this icon to check on what objects you have on
you. A window will display, containing everything you have. Just click
on the object you want to use. To use an object, click on it and choose
one of the options on your brain. Some options (throw, give, place, etc.)
you will have to designate the "target" of your action.

5. PSI ENERGY: When the pulsations get weak, that means your reserves are
low. And no Psi Energy means no psi powers! So go easy on the EV! The
icon flashes when psi energy reserves drop significantly or when
insufficient for use of a power.

6. SAVE: Not your soul (Exxos deals with that), but the current game.
Insert a clean formatted disk in the drive. Validate on the save icon.
The game will save automatically.

7. LOAD: To load and play a game you've previously saved. Insert the
disk containing the saved game you wish to play. Click on the load icon.
The game will restart at the point where you saved it.

8. TIME: This is useful. For instance, you can calculate how much time
you have left to get those 5 Vort skulls into the Changer.

9. INDICATOR: which flashes when it's your turn to act: click to take
control of the cursor.

SOME THINGS you'll meet in The Temple of Flying Saucers:

PROTOZORQS: The People of the Temple! These splendid beings are the result
   of a mutation which took place just after the Burn. The Protozorq's
   chief personality trait is a fanatical loathing of Offa. And since
   you're an Offa...

MASTER OF ORDEALS: A high dignitary among the Protozorqid People. His
   task is to organize the 5 Ordeals you're supposed to take part in.

PROTIZIM HARSSK: Religeous and political leader of the Protozorqs. Great
   indeed is his pride at being the Protizim during whose reign the
   Original Sin will soon be cleansed! Should you feel in need of an
   uplifting message, just consult the nearest Holo-Holo.

THE PRIESTESSES: Their sacred duty is to guard the Books and intercede
   with Deilos on behalf of the People of the Temple. If you become a Divo,
   you'll be seeing them, briefly, up on the second level where they live.

ZORQ: Protizim Harssk assures us that Zorq is back with the Component
   for the Spawnomatic.

QRIICH: It's a kind of hovering squid, to be seen floating near Zorq.
   Probably a pet.

SAURA: His High Priestess. She who holds the Blade of Sacrifice. Future
   genitor (along with the god Zorq) of the Race to Come.

VORTS: A mistake. See the Book of Shame for shameful details.

DEILOS: The Power in the Abyss, temporary God during Zorq's absence.

DIVO: Triumph over the 5 Ordeals and place the skulls into the Changer
   in under an hour, and you get to be a Divo, Holder of the Egg and
   Messenger to Deilos!

ASPIRANT: Like the other Offas taking part in the Ordeals, you are an
   Aspirant, hoping to attain the glorious status of Divo! That is, from
   the Protozorqs' point of view, the reason for your presence in the
   Temple. Should you fail to become a Divo, then, um... On the other hand,
   if you do attain Divo-hood, well, uh...

THE 5 ORDEALS: What the Protozorqs brought you here for. You just go into
   one of the Ordeals, overcome the ghastly difficulties and win a skull.
   Insert 5 skulls into the Changer in under an hour, and you're a Divo.

THE EGG: Awarded to an Aspirant who manages to place 5 Vort skulls in the
   Changer in under an hour. The Aspirant then receives the envied status
   of Divo and must report to the Chamber of Dreams.

THE SECOND LEVEL: That's where Saura and the other priestesses go about
   their sacred duties. As an Offa, you have no right to even know of
   its existence, let alone consider the threacherous idea of finding a
   way to sneak up there!

SCI-FI: Your friend. She's a prisoner somewhere in this damned Temple!
   You got yourself captured and sent to the Ordeals just to find and
   save her.

GAUSS: Also known as the Foetus. The Hitachi-Gauss Amplifier links you
   telepathically to the nearest Tuner Network Center. The Gauss lives
   in a jar at the center. His telepathic voice is a little strange.

HOLO-HOLO: To get a thrilling and inspirational message from Protizim
   Harssk, just hook into a Holo-Holo.

TURKEYS: They adore the priestesses.

THE CHANGER: Situated in the Master's Orbit. This is where you can leave
   your skulls, if you wish. When a skull has been inserted, you can
   try your luck at the three-cup holograph game to exchange one of your
   objects for another of your choice. You'll need a sharp eye!

ZAPSTIK: The awesome weapon that all Protozorqs carry. Offas don't have
   the right to use them! Zapstiks appear to be a left over from before
   the Burn.

THE BURN: Tuner Network research teams are still working to identify the
   nature of that hideous catastrophe which plunged our world into the
   chaotic nightmare we know today, friend. Trust the Network.

A WORD TO THE WISE
              His Raspacious Nullity, SYNAPZ NODUL NERDZ IV,
   in a fit of insane generosity, hereby consents to the publication of:

"KULT".
              In view of its socially undesirable character.

The Management reminds all organic life-forms that thinking of any sort
is no longer necessary. Anyone caught indulging in thought processes will
be furthured for retraining as Brand X breakfast cereal.

    A long time after the Burn. It is the reign of the Tuner Netwerk.
The PSI-mutant Tuners discreetly control the world of the Normals, who
fear and detest them utterly.

   For the Protozorqs, inhabitants of the Temple, the day of Alonement
is at hand; the god Zorq has returned, as promised in The Book of
Origins, appearing from the sky on board his flying object. In an
explosion of crazed bloodlust, the horde wreaks havoc throughout the
surrounding region. All the Normal villages are razed, and every one
of their inhabitants exterminated. Every one, that is, except the
young males, who are herded into the Mountain, the Temple of Zorq!

    Raven and his friend Sci Fi, two young Turners, approach a Normal
settlement where the Protozorqs, armed with fearsome Zapstiks, are
wiping out the last pitiful pockets of resistance. In spite of orders
from the Foetus, Raven and Sci Fi fling themselves into the fray.
The situation is hopeless, but thanks to his PSI-powers and astounding
combat skills, Raven overcomes incredible odds and finally stands
alone, surrounded on all sides by piles of broken and bloody Protozorq
corpses. He turns to Sci Fi, but she's been dragged off to the Temple!
The Netwerk orders Raven not to try and follow her into the
mountain, but once again he defies the authority of the Foetus!

    At present Raven's in the very heart of the Temple of Zorq!
Everywhere fanatical Protozorqs await the fateful words of their
hideously deranged leader, Protizim Harssk, Guardian finally, hack a
bloody trail to Zorq himself, you've got to be utterly determined,
ruthless, daring death at every turn! You'll need to use your PSI-
Energy wisely; it could mean the difference between total victory and a
horribly sticky end!

    First you must face the bizarre and terrifying Ordeals of Deilos.
Will you emerge as Divo, Holder of the Egg and Messenger of the New
Order, or will you meet a ghastly fate on the Altar of Atonement?
The Master awaits, Raven. Your fellow Aspirants will show no pity.
The repulsive Protozorqs keep gloating guard at every door!

    KULT, with its all-mouse easy-to-handle game system, its infinitely
rich graphic animations and the strange splendour of its scenario,
offers you an authentic future classic in the universe of computer
games.

    Step into KULT, Exxos commands it!
NEW AND EXCITING !! WIN A CUSTOMISED CERVIKAL CORD !! Yes, it's for
real! Faithful Servants of Exxos Inc. have come up with a lulu. A
megamarv holog simulation of you know who's cervikal cord! Wowee!
All-star SCIENTIFIC MINDS have tried their darndest to tell the
difference, and failed 300% ! Your (ex-) friends will grovel
satisfyingly. Your NEW acquaintances will ask your advice about
MILLIONS of highly intimate problems!

HOW DO I WIN THIS DESIRABLE FREE PRIZE? IT'S SO EASY!
                                                             ______
Simply scratch the little rectangle and sniff the delicious |______|
odor. You'll love it. Now here's the hard part. Just
remember: This could be your

PASSPORT TO IMPORTANCE !

THE BIG QUESTION: What did you scratch the rectangle with?

THE BOOK OF ORIGINS & THE BOOK OF SHAME

KULT

The Book of Origins
Within the Mountain lived the People. From the sky came Zorq, the final
Exalted One, and his familiar, Qriich, in their flying appliance. And
Zorq spoke to the People, saying "I have chosen you who are less than
nothing. Tomorrow you will be Sires of the New Race, and the Earth will
be yours and you will obliterize all the people of the Earth in a
frenzy of mindless bloodlust." And the people felt joy. "Let a female
be brought to me,"barked Zorq, and it was done fast. A female of the
People, the meatiest, was brought before Zorq who impregnated her,
saying "Female, you will gender the New Race. Our races will be one and
all others will shortly be obliterized, for they are Offa." And the
female was placed in the Spawnomatik according to Zorq's desire. In
three hours she spawned a multiplicity of eggs which hatched forthwith.
And the children did eat of their mother who thus fed her offspring
that the Race might be the bloodthirstiest of all. And the children
did eat of each of each other, down to the last. And Zorq spoke,
saying "So much for that Race." And the People felt sadness, for the
New Race had contained a fairly major glitch. Zorq spoke again, saying
"I leave you, for I must seek out the Komponent. Upon my return, we will
try once more. Keep the Spawnomatik as a sign. But touch it not. Choose
a Protizim from amongst you. He will be Protizim of the People and will
keep the Faith until my return." And Zorq and his familiar, Qriich,
did disappear into the sky in their flying appliance.

The Book Of Shame
The People of the Protozorqs selected a Protizim. And Protizim Krill kept
the faith, the Spawnomatik and the Mountain which became the Temple. And
when Krill terminated, Prass was chosen as Protizim. And Protizim Pass
forgot the words of Zorq and took it upon himself to attempt the creation
of the New Race, saying "Zorq has forsaken us, for he has found another
People. But we have the Spawnomatik. Let us produce the New Race ourselves.
In this way we can obliterize all other peoples." And the People of the
Temple believed him, saying "He's right." And Prass spoke, saying "Let a
female be brought to me. And let it be a meaty one." It was done. And
Prass did impregnate her, saying "Woof Woof." Then the female was placed
within the Spawnomatik where she spawned a slimy multitude of eggs which
hatched. The children did nibble apologetically of the flesh of their
mother, after which they did snooze. Protizim Prass spoke again, saying
"This Race couldn't obliterize a squashed gerbil, let alone Offa, for
they are Vorts!" And the people felt disappointed, for they had been
counting on something a little more assertive than Vorts. Prass spoke
once more, saying "This is our Day of Shame. Our misery is deserved, for
we have lacked faith in Zorq who is verily our true God. We must
obliterize ourselves and our Vorts forthwith, for we are covered in
Guilt." The spoke a Protozorq, saying "Nay, we deserve no such gentle
fate. Out people must live to bear the crushing burden of our Crime
until Zorq returns to deliver us of Shame. And our Vorts will be
our slaves, that we might see our Guilt before us every day! And when
our God, Zorq, finally creates the new Race, then will we obliterize
ourselves to wash us of our Sin. Only you, Prass, have the right to
obliterize yourself today." And the people of the Temple agreed. And
Deilos became temporary God in Zorq's absence, for Deilos is the
Abysmal Power of the Humid Pit, and the Protozorq's deserved no better.
And Protizim Prass did terminaterize himself, saying "Let me be woken
up on the Day of the Collective Self-Obliterization." And thus did die
Prass who spoke one positively last time, croaking "When Zorq returns,
you will take young Offa. And from amongst them you will select those
most apt to carry the message of rebrn hope to Deilos. And from amongst
the Offa you will take a female, whom you will name Saura, High
Priestess, and who will genderize the New Race according to Zorq's
desire, for Zorq is our God."
