                                POSTMAN PAT

Typed in by Scott/ACCUMULATORS. Edited by PARASITE.


  Postman Pat now comes to your computer screen in tihs highly entertaining
 and colourful arcade game.The game has an easy version suitable for the
 younger children and a harder version;as well as POSTMAN PAT,PAT SNAP,LUDO
 and SNAKES AND LADDERS:four great games in all.

  It seemed just like another day for Pat as he climbed out of bed.Little did
 he know that he would be rushed off his feet with all the work that faced him
 this morning as he did his rounds of Greensdale.Parcels,letters and all sorts
 of odd jobswould keep him very busy.You can help Pat and Jess to get the job
 done by guiding his van around the village.

  You start the game by finding the Post Office whare Mrs Goggins will tell
 Pat what he must deliver.It will either be a number of letters or a parcel
 for one of Pat`s friends.You can drive around the village(and can reverse if
 you need to turn around)in order to find your friends house and deliver the
 parcel.(If you return to the van and then wish to go back to a house you must
 leave the screen and re-enter it).Letters are delivered to the houses that
 flash as you pass them.To deliver a letter just press the fire buttonas you
 pass the house.If you miss you must get Pat out of the van using the fire
 button and guide him to pick up the letter and try again.

  If Peter Fogg`s sheep get lose you can help him by herding the sheep back
 through the gate(you must find them yourself).

  Watch out for oil slicks on the road and Miss Hubbard on her wobbly bike.

  Because Pat is such a busy chap you have only got a short time to complete
 your tasks.If you run out of time the game is over.

SNAKES AND LADDERS(1-4 Players)
  The aim of snakes and ladders is to get your counter from square 1(at the
 bottom) to square 60(at the top).Should your counter land at the bottom of
 the ladder,you will be moved to the top of it.However if you land on the top
 of a snake,then you will slide down to its tail.If you are lucky enough to
 roll a 6 you are given another go.To win,you must land exactly on square 60.
 For example,if you are on square 58,you must roll a 2 too win.A 3 will not
 count.

LUDO(1-4 Players)
  The object of this game is too take all your counters out of your base,then
 around the board and get them home to win.In order to take a counter out of
 your base you must first roll a 6.As in snakes and ladders you must roll a
 complete number to complete the game.

SNAP
  The object of the game is to match the top half and the bottom half of the
 displayed character correctly.When the player presses fire with Pat(the cursor
 icon)over the ~GO~ button,the reels start spinning.The bottom will stop after
 a while.Then the player must press fire with Pat over the ~STOP~ button.If
 the bottom and the top match ha wins a point.Playing 99 times or selecting END
 returns to the title screen.

  Play against a friend and see who can score the most in 10,20 or more goes.

  KEYS:-

  Left ----\
            |
  Right     |
            |                                P-Pause
  Up        +---  Use joystick
            |                                A-Abort
  Down      |
            |
  Fire ----/
