                                TELEGAMES

Typed in by ???. Edited by PARASITE.

TeleGames Menu
The TeleGames Menu (first menu heading from the left) offers four possible
menu selections:

     TeleChess
     TeleCheckers
     TeleBackgammon
     Exit Telegames

The first three selections will allow you to play the indicated game; either
Chess, Checkers, or Backgammon. Upon selection, it may take a few moments to
load in the requested game graphics. Exit Telegames will cause the TeleGames
program to end, de-allocating all memory and resources that had been
allocated. When any of the TeleGames menu items have been selected, the chime
will sound and the verification requester will be displayed.

Game Menu
The Game Menu (second menu from the left) will display the name of the Game
currently being played. Under this menu heading are displayed the following
menu options:

     Choose a Side
     Start New Game
     Cede/End Game

Choose a Side
Choose a Side allows you to choose either WHITE or RED as your piece color
in the game about to be played.

Start a Game
Start a Game will begin a NEW game for the TeleGame currently displayed on
the screen.  When this menu item is selected, the TeleGames and TeleFiles
menus are deactivated. When you are teleconnected to another computer either
player may start the game. The color of the side of the starting computer is
retained, while the other computer defaults to the color of the other side.
For example, if both computers have chosen to be WHITE, only the computer
that STARTS the game will be WHITE.  The other computer will, by default,
become the RED side.

Cede/End Game
Cede/End Game will cause the game currently being played to end.  Both the
TeleGames and TeleFiles menus will be activated when Cede/End Game is chosen.

Board View Menu
The Board View Menu will allow you to change the viewing angle of the game
that is currently being displayed on your screen. There are two menu options
available under Board View:  View Dimensions and Board View Angle.

View Dimensions
View Dimensions allows you to play any of the games on either a 3 dimensional
perspectively viewed game board, or a 2 dimensional top viewed game board.
The 3D default view is the most realistic, but some players may at first have
trouble keeping the relative positions of the game pieces straight. If this
is the case, use the 2D view.

Board View Angle
Board View Angle will allow you to rotate the game board to any of four
angles in Chess and Checkers, and any of two sides in Backgammon. In each
case, the Board View Angle defaults to the WHITE View (WHITE in the
foreground). The computer that is RED should flip the Board View Angle around
to the RED View at the start of a game. It is also possible to view the Chess
and Checker boards from the King's Side view and the Queen's Side view. These
angles may most frequently be used when two players are playing a game on a
single computer. Whenever the 3D/2D View Dimensions are changed, the Board
View Angle defaults to the WHITE View, and so must be reset.

TeleComm Menu
The TeleComm menu contains the TeleGames options relating to the
telecommunications.

     Telecommunication Mode
     Disconnect (Hang up)
     Transmit Game and Play
     Dial Telephone Number

Telecommunications Mode
The Telecommunications Mode menu iem offers four possible modes as sub items
into which your computer may be set.

     Sending (Caller)
     Receiving (Answer)
     Null Modem Connect
     Teleconnect Off

Your computer will always be set to one of these telecommunication modes.
The default is Teleconnect Off. In order to teleconnect with another computer
you must set the Telecommunication Mode to one of the first three of these
menu items. The Telecommunication Mode reverts to the Teleconnect Off mode
whenever the Disconnect (Hang up) menu subitem is selected.

Sending (Caller)
Sending mode will make your computer the calling computer; that is, the one
that initiates the teleconnection by calling the other computer over the
telephone. When the Sending mode is chosen, the Dial Telephone Number menu
option is activated.

Receiving (Answer)
Receiving mode will make your computer the answering computer; that is, the
one that answers the call that will be placed by the other computer.
Selecting Receiving mode places your computer into a state where it passively
awaits an incoming call. A Cancel Answering Mode requester is provided in the
event yuo wish to exit from the Receiving mode. When an incoming call is
received, TeleGames will answer your phone and make the teleconnection so
that game play may begin.

Null Modem Connect
The Null Modem Connect mode forces Telegames into the teleconnected state.
This mode should be used whenever two computers are connected to each other
by a direct serial port null modem cable. It may also be used if your modem
is not sufficiently compatible with the "AT" command set for the Sending or
Answering modes to function properly. You may use other communication
software running as a multitask to place the call or answer the telephone.
Once the teleconnection has been made, simply put your computer into Null
Modem Connect mode and begin to play.  TeleGames will grab the open
teleconnected serial line and work.

Note: it may be necessary to shut down the other comm task in the event that
it has grabbed exclusive use of the serial port.  Most comm software will
leave the line open even though the program that opened the line has ended.

Teleconnect Off
Teleconnect Off mode allows two players to play TeleGames on a single
computer. TeleGames reverts to this mode when the Disconnect menu option is
selected.  It will always enable the Cede/End Game menu item when it is
selected.

Disconnect (Hang up)
The Disconnect option will cause the teleconnected state of your computer to
be broken by hanging up the telephone, returning TeleGames to the Teleconnect
Off mode.  Both computers must select Disconnect when a session has ended.

Transmit Game and Play
The Transmit Game and Play option under the Telecomm Menu allows you to
transmit a saved and previously loaded game configuration to the other
teleconnected computer.  Both computers must be in the same unstarted game
(Start a New Game enabled) when this option is selected. Before a game is
transmitted, players should use the message chat lines to establish that a
game is about to be transmitted.  Transmit only when there is no activity on
the receiving computer, otherwise the transmit may be aborted.

Dial Telephone Number
This menu item is activated whenever your computer has been placed in the
Sending mode and a teleconnection is not yet established. The telephone
number for the current opponent will be dialled to attempt a teleconnection.

Tele_Files_Menu
The Tele Files Menu allows access to all the disk files that relate to
TeleGames telecommunications.  There are only two options under this Menu
heading:

     Modem
     Parameters and Opponent Parameters.

Modem_Parameters
Selecting Modem Parameters will cause the Set Modem Parameter window to
scroll up from the bottom of your screen. When TeleGames is first loaded into
the computer, it consults a file called modemset in the Tele_Files directory
and loads in the default settings for the modem that will be used with the
program.  The Set Modem Parameters window allows you to set thse values once
and save them to the disk so that they will autoload each time TeleGames is
run. The current setings will be displayed in highlights.  Note that if these
settings are changed, they will be active whether they were saved or not.

Baud_Rate
Click on the Baud Rate that you will usually be using with TeleGames, either
300, 1200, 2400, or 9600.

Dial_Command
There are three options under the  heading Dial Command. If your modem uses
the standard "AT" command set, you may click on either ATDT for tone dialing
or ATDP for pulse dialing. The box under this heading is provided so that
you might  input  custom dialing command strings.  Note that it also may be
used to add modem commands to the standard "AT" set. For example ATX6DT will
tone dial and return result codes to TeleGames. Telegames will then tell you
whether the line was busy, or whether no one answered the phone. If any
characters  are displayed in the Dialing Command Box, then that is the
current active Dialing Command.

Answer_Command
There are also three commands available under the Answer Command heading. If
your modem recognizes the "AT" command set, ATS0=1 will cause your modem to
answer the phone after 1 ring. If your modem does not recognize this command,
then you might choose ATA, which will force the computer to immediately
answer the telephone when you enter Receiving (Answer) mode. If you are using
the ATA command, then you should not select the Receiving mode until after
you have heard the telephone ring. Like the Dial Command, the Answer Command
provides a custom command input box.  Use this box to enter your custom modem
answer command string.Both the Dialing and Answer Command boxes are used by
clicking them active with the mouse, and then typing in the character string
from the keyboard  You must hit RETURN to activate the string and regain
control of the mouse buttons.

LOAD_-_SAVE_-_QUIT
Click gadgets to LOAD and SAVE the Modemset file are provided, as is a QUIT
gadget. To Load the  previously saved Modem Parameters, click on the LOAD
gadget with the mouse. To Save the current Modem Parameters click on the SAVE
gadget with the mouse. To return to TeleGames and remove the Set Modem
Parameters window from view, click on the QUIT gadet with the mouse.

Opponent_Parameters
Selecting Opponent Parameters under the Tele Files Menu will cause the Tele-
communications Files window to scroll up from the bottom of the screen. The
Telecommunication Files window allows you to set modem parameters for
playing TeleGames with a specific oponent. Enter the telephone number of your
opponent by clicking the Telephone Number box active with the mouse. Type in
the correct telephone number (hyphens and spaces will be ignored). Then hit
RETURN. The baud rate is set just as it was on the Set Modem Parameter
window, and becomes instantly active. Even though you may operate at 2400
baud, your opponent may be limited to 1200 baud. Therefore it is important
that you set the baud rate for an opponent at the highest level you may both
successfully use.

Filing_Opponent_Parameters
TeleGames allows you to store preset Opponent Parameters to the disk for
later retrieval. The file name (usually the opponents name under which the
parameters will be stored must be typed in the File Name Box. Like all the
other input boxes, it is activated for keyboard input by clicking it on with
the mouse.  Hit RETURN after typing the file name. You may Save the Opponent
Parameter by clicking on the SAVE gadget with the mouse. You will note that
the file is now entered into the Fil  Directory Table.

When the Opponent parameter window is first displayed, the File Directory
Table displays all of the current Opponent files stored to the disk. To
select a file for loading, point to the box with the desired opponent name
with the mouse pointer and click the left mouse button. The file name will
appear in the File Name box. Now click on the LOAD gadget to load this
Opponent Parameter file into Teleames as the current active opponent.
Clicking on the DELETE gadget with the mouse will cause the file displayed
in the File Name box to be deleted from the disk. To quit the
Telecommunications File window click on the QUIT gadget. The window will then
be scrolled out of view, and you will be returned to the TeleGames board view
graphic screen.

Game_Files_Menu
The Game Files Menu provides options for Saving an ongoing game to disk, and
for later retrieving it from the disk to resume play. There are two menu
options listed under the Game Files Menu: Game Directory and Play Saved Game.

Game_Directory
Selecting Game Directory will cause the Game Files Directory Window for the
current TeleGame (Chess, Checkers, or Backgammon) to scroll up from the
bottom of the screen. The Game Files window is very similar to the
Telecommunication Files window. It displays a File Name box under which are
the same LOAD, SAVE, DELETE, and QUIT gadgets.

Saving_a_Game
TeleGames allows you to store the game currently being played to the disk
for later retrieval. A game may be saved at any time without effecting the
game being played. (Note that in Backgammom the Game Directory option is
enabled only before the dice are rolled.) The file name for the game to be
saved must be typed into the File Name Box. Like the other input boxes, it is
activated for keyboard input by clicking it on with the mouse. Hit RETURN
after typing the file name to regain mouse buton control. You may then save
the current game by clicking on the SAVE gadget with the mouse. You will note
that the file is now entered into the File Directory.

Loading a Saved Game
When the Game Files window is first displayed, the File Directory displays
all of the current saved game files stored to the disk for that game (Chess,
Checkers, or Backgammon).  To select a file for loading, point to the box
displaying the desired file with the mouse pointer and click the left mouse
button. The file name will appear in the File Name box. Now click on the LOAD
gadget to load this Saved Game file into TeleGames as the current active
game.  You will see the board pieces rearrange to the saved game board
configuration. Clicking on the DELETE gadget with the mouse will cause the
file displayed in the File Name box to be deleted from the disk. To quit the
Game Files Directory window click on the QUIT gadget.

Play_Saved_Game
In the Teleconnect OFF mode this menu option becomes active immediately after
a saved game is loaded.  Select this option to play the loaded saved game for
two players on a single computer.

Sound Menu
TeleGames offers high quality digitized sound effects to augment the realism
of the game simulation. The Sound Menu provides the option of turning the
sound ON or Sound OFF. When TeleGames is first loaded, the Sound Menu default
is Sound ON.

Teleconnect Procedure
The primary purpose of TeleGames is to allow people to play Chess, Checkers,
or Backgammon over the telephone, using a computer and a modem. Up until now,
modems have been used primarily for contacting bulletin boards that allow the
user to post messages and access download files. While it has always been
possible for most users to establish a direct teleconnection with other
compurists, it is rarely done because of lack of familiarity with modem
protocols and software.

TeleGames gives telecomputerists another use for their modems, allowing them
to play games with another human being. The mystique of telecommunications is
gone. All with which you the user must be concerned, is playing the game.
TeleGames will handle the rest.

Setting Modem Parameters
In order for TeleGames to work correctly it is necessary that it be able to
communicate with your modem and with the modem of your opponent. A few simple
settings must be input to TeleGames so that the computer may communicate
coherently with your modem. These settings need be made but once, and then
saved to the disk. Thereafter, whenever TeleGames is loaded, these settings
will be loaded with it. In order to set your modem parameters you should
select the Modem Parameter option in the Tele Files menu.

Baud_Rate
Baud rate is the number of binary digits per second transmitted across your
modem.  Most modems today commonly transmit at 300, 1200, or 2400 baud.
TeleGames supports all these baud rates as well as the new 9600 baud modems.
Set the baud rate to a level that is supported by your modem, and that you
will most commonly be using.  The higher baud rates will transmit data more
quickly, so they are preferred.

Dial_and_Answer_Commands
Modems recognize a command instruction set that allows the computer to direct
the modem to perform certain activities. like dialing and answering the phone.
TeleGames supports the "AT" command set standard. If your phone is tough tone,
click on ATDT; or if you have a pulse rotary phone, click on ATDP to set the
Dial Commands. If your modem recognizes a different dialing command string,
or if you wish to use additional command in the dialing command string, click
on the custom dialing command input box and type in your dialing command
string.

Answer Commands should be set in the same manner.  ATS0=1 will answer your
phone after one ring, while ATA will pick up the phone as soon as you enter
the Answer mode.  Custom answer command strings may also be input. After the
Modem Parameters have been set, be sure to save them to the disk.

Setting Opponent Parameters
The next step necessary is to input the opponent parameters. These are set by
selecting the Opponent Parameters option in the Tele Files menu. Type in the
telephone number and the selected baud rate at which you will be playing that
opponent. The baud rate should be the highest one common to both your modems.
Then type the opponents name into the File Name box and SAVE the Opponent
file. The next time that you wish to play TeleGames with that opponent you
ned only load the Opponent Parameter file from the disk. Before you establish
a teleconnection, whether you are Sending or Receiving, you MUST set the
Opponent Parameters or load an Opponent Parameter File.

Voice Contact
It is recommended that telephone voice contact first be established between
the TeleGames players to verify who will enter the Sending mode and dial the
opponent, and who will enter Receiving mode and answer the call.  The caller
should enter Sending Mode, and the Receiver should enter Receiving mode, if
ATS0=1 is the default. When both computers are ready to go, the players can
agree to initiate contact in 15 seconds after the voice connection is broken.
This will minimize the chance of an extraneous incoming call ringing the
telephone before the Sending computer can Dial the Number.

Teleconnect Procedure Summary

1.  Each computer should load TeleGames.
2.  Set your Modem Parameters (if not already set).
3.  Load the Opponent Parameters for your chosen opponent.
4.  Call your opponent (voice) to decide who will call whom.
5.  Be sure that both computers are in the same game and that a game has not
    already been started.
6.  While still voice connected, the caller should enter the Sending Mode and
    the one whom will answer should enter the Receiving mode (if ATS0=1
    answer command is set).
7.  Hang up the phone (voice).
8.  The Sending computer chooses the Dial the Number menu option, and the
    computer dials the telephone number and waits for a connection.
9.  If ATS0=1 answer command is set, the Receiving computer will answer the
    telephone and make the connection.
10. If ATA answer command is set on the Receiving computer, that player
    should enter Receiving mode upon hearing the telephone ring.
11. The Teleconnection is established. Players may now type messages on their
    keyboards, Start a New Game, Load, Transmit & Play a saved game.

TELECONECT - Another Method
Some nonstandard modems that do not Answer the phone or recognize the "AT"
command set may not initially seem to work with TeleGames. But don't give up
hope yet!  You can still play TeleGames over the phone by using the NULL
MODEM CONNECT menu option. Just try the following procedure to attempt to
establish a teleconnection. Use a telecomm software package that does work
with your modem to establish a teleconnection with a terminal software
package on another computer. If you are using another terminal software
package it should be set to the following telecomm specifications.

      Baud Rate      -- your baud rate
      Parity         -- NONE
      Data length    -- 8 bits
      Stop bits      -- 1 stop bit
      Duplex         -- Full Duplex

After a connection is made, close the other telecomm program. The telephone
line connection should remain open. Now load in TeleGames. Both computers
should immediately be placed in the NULL MODEM CONNECT mode. Do not do
anything else until you have allowed enough time to pass for the other player
to have put his computer into NULL MODEM CONNECT mode. Finally, player should
type a message to determine if the teleconnection was successful.

Playing TeleChess - Moving a Piece
Chess is played on TeleGames by pointing to the top portion of a chess piece
(above the top ring on each piece shaft) with the mouse pointer and then
depressing the left mouse button. The pointer will disappear, and the
selected chess piece will move with the movements of the mouse. To set down
the chess piece, move it to the desired board position, and release the mouse
button.

Move Legality
Only the color whose turn is current may be moved. The computer checks for
the legality of a move according to the official rules of play. The computer
will not allow a move, if that player's king is in check, or if the resulting
move will place that player's king in check. If an ilegal move is made,
TeleGames returns the piece to its original position on the board. Only legal
moves are transmitted to the teleconnected computer. The status or result of
each move, as well as whose turn is current, is displayed in one of the
message boxes on the top portion of the graphic screen. TeleGames will inform
the players of both a check and a checkmate. Because of all the various rules
governing a stalemate, stalemate determination is left to the discretion of
the players.

Castling and La Passant
TeleGames supports all of the official rules of chess, including castling and
la passant. To castle the player must pick up the king and move it to a legal
castling position.  If the move is legal (ie. the king and rook have not
previously been moved, the king is not or will not be in check, and no square
that the king must cross is under attack by an opponent's piece), then
castling will be performed. A pawn attacking a square crossed by an enemy
pawn, which has advanced two squares in one move from its original square,
may capture the enemy pawn la passant as though the later had been moved only
one square. This move must be made in the immediately following turn. La
passant is the only way to capture a piece that is not on the destination
square of the moving piece.

Promoting a Pawn
When a pawn reaches the last rank, the player must exchange the pawn for
another more mobile piece. When this occurs, TeleGames will prompt you with a
series of requesters. Read the requesters and follow their directions on how
to promote a pawn.

Starting and Ending a Game
White always moves first in Chess. A game is ended when a checkmate occurs,
or when a player chooses the Cede/End Game menu option from the Game menu.

Playing TeleCheckers - Moving a Piece
Checkers is played on TeleGames by pointing to the top disk portion of a
checker piece with the mouse pointer and depressing the left mouse button.
The pointer will disappear, and the selected checker piece will now move with
the movements of the mouse. To set down the checker piece, move it to the
desired board position, and release the mouse button.

Move Legality
TeleGames enforces all of the official rules of Checkers, and will allow only
legal moves to be made. In Checkers an uncrowned piece may only move
diagonally forward on the dark squares of the game board. A crowned checker
piece may be moved diagonally in any direction. A checker piece may not land
upon a square occupied by another piece. Also, a checker piece can only move
one square at a time, unless it is capturing a piece. If a jump (capture) is
possible in a turn, then a jump MUST be made. Moving any other piece is
illegal. An enemy piece is captured by jumping over it with a diagonally
adjacent piece of the opposite color. Checker pieces may make multiple legal
jumps in a single turn as long as the same piece is used to make all the
jumps. TeleGames must transmit each jump separately, so the player must use
the following multiple jump procedure.

Multiple Jump Procedure

1.  Pick up a piece with the left mouse button.
2.  Make the jump, placing the piece on the destination square. Then release
    the mouse button so the move may be transmitted.
3.  The message box will prompt that it is still the same player's turn as
    long as there is another jump possible by the same checker piece.
4.  Following the same procedure, make the next jump.
5.  Continue making multiple jumps with the same checker piece as long as
    they are possible. When no jumps are possible, the turn will end.

A checker piece is crowned (kinged) when it reaches its last rank. A crowned
checker piece may both move or jump diagonally in any direction.

Starting and Ending a Game

Red always moves first in Checkers.
A game is ended either when all of the pieces of one color have been captured
or when a player chooses the Cede/End Game menu option from the Game Menu.
Under rare circumstances it is possible to stalemate a checker game, wherein
no move is possible for either side. When this occurs one of the players must
choose Cede/End Game. Such a game should be considered a draw.

Playing TeleBackgammon: Rolling the Dice
Dice are rolled by pointing the mouse pointer to the red ROLL DICE gadget at
center top of the graphic screen, and clicking the left mouse button. When a
Backgammon Game is started TeleGames initiates the first roll of the dice,
one die for each color. The player whose color die has the highest numeric
value moves first, taking the values from both dice for his move. If the dice
are the same value, each player should immediately click on the ROLL DICE
gadget to roll again. The numeric value of the dice roll are displayed in the
boxes beneath the ROLL DICE gadget, as well as on the dice themselves.On any
roll but the first, if the dice are the same value, then the player gets to
move the single die value four times.

Playing Backgammon - Moving a Marker
After the dice have been rolled, a move is made by pointing to the top disk
portion of a backgammon marker with the mouse pointer and depressing the left
mouse button.  The pointer will disappear, and the selected marker will now
move with the movements of the mouse. To set down the Backgammon marker, move
it to the desired board position, and release the mouse button. As in
accordance with the rules of Backgammon, each dice move must be made
separately. For example a roll of 4 and 2 cannot be moved as a 6, rather it
is two moves (even if the same piece is making the move) - one of 4 and
another of 2, or one of 2 and another of 4. Remember that a roll of doubles
moves 4 times the value of a single die. So a roll of 5 and 5 would allow a
player to move 5 four times; one move of 5, another move of 5, another move
of 5, and another move of 5.

Move Legality
TeleGames enforces all of the official rules of Backgammon, allowing only
legal moves to be transmitted to another teleconnected computer. Backgammon
markers can only move the value on a single die until all moves have been
made. The markers can only move forward in a square cornered "U" pattern
around the board. When a move is made in the wrong direction, TeleGames will
prompt you with a message in the message box and display the marker color
next to its inner (home) court. After a few turns, this color will disappear.
Remember that a move cannot end on a square occupied by two or more of the
opponent's markers (a blocked point). If there is a single opponent marker
on the destination point of a move, then that marker is "hit" to the bar.
This marker must re-enter the table on an unblocked point in his opponent's
inner court before other moves are possible. Markers can bear off the table
after all markers of one color have reached the player's inner court (and
none are on the bar). Markers farthest out must bear off first, unless there
is a marker on the point that corresponds to the value of the rolled die.
Then it can bear off.

Doubling Die
TeleGames supports the Doubling Die.  At any time during his turn, a player
may point to the doubling die with the mouse pointer and click the left mouse
button to offer it to his opponent.  The value of the die will double (it
starts at 1) on both teleconnected computers. The receiving computer will
sound a chime when the die is doubled, but that player may not respond to
accept or reject the die until it is his turn to roll. The current value of
the doubling die as well as which player controls the die is displayed in the
doubling die box in the upper right hand corner of the graphics screen. Only
the player controlling the doubling die may offer it to his opponent. After
the die has been offered, the receiver of the doubling die must wait until it
is his turn ot accept or reject the die.  Requesters will prompt the player
at this time. If the die is accepted, then the game continues.  Should the
die be rejected, then the game is over and the score of the winner is
incremented the value of the die before it was offered.

Scoring Backgammon
A running score is maintained by TeleGames during the course of a
teleconnected Backgammon session.  This score is displayed when a game is
won, or when one of the players cedes the game. The scoring box occupies the
same place on the screen as does the doubling die box in the upper right hand
corner of the graphic screen. At other times the player may view the score by
pointing to the doubling die box with the mouse pointer and pressing the left
mouse button. As long as  the button is depressed, the current score (in
yellow) will be displayed. The score will reflect both gammon and backgammon
end game situations.

Ending a Game
A Backgammon game is ended either when all of the pieces of one color have
been moved off the board, or when a player chooses the Cede/End Game menu
option from the Game Menu. If the losing player has born off at least one
marker, then a single game (valued at the number on the doubling die) is
lost.  But if he has not born off a single marker, then it is said to be a
gammon and he loses a double game (valued at the number on the doubling die
x 2).  In addition, if the losing player has left a marker on the bar or in
the adverse inner court, then he loses a triple score (valued at the number
on the doubling die x 3), and it is said to be a backgammon.

USING THE RAMDISK
If you have more than 512K of RAM ON your Amiga, you may want to copy the
TeleGames graphics and data files to the Ramdisk before loading TeleGames.
An icon program in the Tele_Batch drawer called DiskToRam will copy the
appropriate files to the Ramdisk, making the all appropriate assigns so that
TeleGames knows where to find the files. If you do use TeleGames from the
Ramdisk and have saved any opponent parameters files or any games, the Tele_
Files directory and files must be copied back to your TeleGames_WB floppy
disk.  Use the RamToDisk icon driven program (in the Tele_Batch drawer) to
copy the Tele_Files back to the program disk before you turn off your
computer.

If this is not done, then any Tele_Files created during this session will be
lost!  When RamToDisk is run, it also cleans up after itself by removing all
the TeleGames files from the Ramdisk so that the space can be used by other
applications.

Improved Operation
While TeleGames works great in a 512K Amiga, it works even better in an Amiga
equipped with a Fast RAM expansion. TeleGames was written to take full
advantage of Fast RAM's increased program execution speed. With Fast RAM the
TeleGames program code can operate without sharing processor time while
displaying the 640 x 200 four bit plane graphics or playing the digitized
sound.

USING TELEGAMES FROM A HARD DISK
Another icon driven program in the Tele_Batch drawer, called HDInstall, will
copy the TeleGames program, directories, and files to your hard disk into a
directory/drawer that is labeled TeleGames! After HDInstall is run, click on
your hard disk icon to open the hard disk directory window, and look for the
TeleGames! drawer.  If necessary, move it to an open location within the
window and use the Workbench menu option Snapshot to fix its position. Open
the TeleGames! drawer.  You will see three icons:  TeleGame, HDStart, and
HDToRam.  These icons will probably also need to be repositioned within the
TeleGames! directory window.

Before the TeleGame program is loaded, the HDStart icon driven program should
always be run to make the appropriate assigns so that TeleGames can find its
directories Tele_Games and Tele-Files. Or, if you wish to dispense with this
step, the following assigns may be added to your startup-sequence.

Assign TeleGames:
                     dh0:TeleGames!/Tele_Games
Assign Tele+Files:
                     dh0:TeleGames!/Tele_Files

The HDToRam icon driven program will copy just the Tele_Games graphics
directory to the Ramdisk from the hard drive.  The Tele_Files user files
directory will remain on the hard disk.

TELEGAME DIRECTORIES
TeleGames accesses two main directories during program operation:

Tele Games Directory
The Tele_Games directory contains all of the graphics and sound data files
necessary to the program.  Placing these files on the Ramdisk will
significantly increase load speed during the course of the game.  The
Tele_Games directory is assigned the logical device name TeleGames: so that
it may be found by the program whether it resides on a floppy, a hard disk,
or on the Ramdisk.

Tele Files Directory
The Tele_Files directory cntains all of the user accessed I/O files. The
modemset file contains the default baud rate and both the call and answer
command strings settings for your modem. The TeleFiles subdirectory contains
the opponent Parameter files of baud rates and telephone numbers of your
opponents. The GameFiles subdirectory contains the TeleGames saved game
files.  Chess saved games are identified by the "C" prefix, Checkers saved
games are identified by the "K" prefix, and Backgammon saved games are
identified by the "B" prefix. The Tele_Files directory is assigned the
logical device name Tele+Files: so that it may be found by the program
whether it resides on a floppy, a hard disk, or on the Ramdisk.

Trouble Shooting

TeleGames will not Load
1) Check to see tha enough memory is available for TeleGames.
2) On a 512K Amiga only 1 external drive may be connected, and no other tasks
   should be running.
3) Check to see that the TeleGames_WB working copy is not damaged.

TeleGames will not Dial a Number
1) Is your modem powered & connected?
2) Check that the Modem Parameters are correctly set.
3) Is your modem "AT" command set compatible?
4) Consult your modem manual for a Dial Command string that should work, and
   type it into the Dial Command Box.
5) If all else fails, try the Alternate Teleconnect Method.

TeleGames will not Answer the Phone
1) Is your modem powered & connected?
2) Check that the Modem Parameters are correctly set.
3) Is your modem "AT" command set compatible?
4) Consult your modem manual for an Answer Command string that should work,
   and type it into the Answer Command Box.
5) Try the ATA command to force an immediate answer. Set Receiving mode after
   your hear the phone ring.
6) If all else fails, try the Alternate Teleconnect Method (Page 26).

Teleconnected, but Game will not Work
1) Are both computers set to the same baud rate?
2) Was a game previously started on one or both of the computers when the
   teleconnection was made?
3) Are both computers in the same game (for example, are both in Chess)?
4) Hangup and re-establish telephone voice contact to verify settings,
   then try again.

TeleConnect & Playing, then No Response
1) Are you still connected?  Check the Carrier Detect (CD) light on your
   modem, if it has one.
2) Type in a message, or two, or three. The chime may awaken your opponent.
3) If the SEND message line is echoed back on your RECV message line (some
   modems), then you are disconnected.
4) If you suspect that you have been disconnected, then SAVE the game.
   Choose the Disconnect Menu option. If the game is still active, and the
   Cede/End Game menu is ghosted, select the TeleConnect OFF mode (even if it
   is currently selected) to force activate the Cede/End Game option.
5) Perhaps your opponent has died. The still living player is considered the
   winner, though he is forced to choose. Cede/End Game to exit.

If you have Reached the End of Your Rope call our BBS at 1-(817) 244-4151 and
ask for help.  We will do what we can, but strategy/cunning are up to you!
