                             SKID ROW
                            
                             presents

          DICK TRACY: THE CRIME-SOLVING ADVENTURE MANUAL

Tracy--

   Good to have you back from vacation.  I hope you got that itch for
sun and sand out of your trousers, because right now you're about as
far as you can get from paradise.
   Here's the dirt: While you were gone, the thugs in the city put their
muscles and guns together to create the biggest criminal empire I've
ever seen.  The usual mugs-- Flattop, Pruneface, Itchy, Shoulders,
Influence, Numbers, and the rest of them troublemakers-- are no longer
small- time punks running their own shows.  They're now carrying out 
orders of arson, murder, robbery, extortion, kidnapping, and 
counterfeiting in a crime racket that's like one big, unbreakable 
machine.
   I'm pretty sure that Lips Manlis is calling the shots.  Now you know 
and I know that Lips Manlis is as crooked as a drunk jaybird, but he's
usually just playing the role of a loudmouth racketeer in a penguin
suit.  He's smart, but I don't think he's smart enough to pull off 
something this organized.  My good Irish guts tell me that Big Boy
Caprice has got his dirty mitts all over this one.  I'm sure he's 
sitting behind some fancy-schmancy desk at the Club Ritz barking at
Lips Manlis, who then takes it out to his thugs.  
   You'll have to work fast to stop Big Boy, but getting the goods on
him won't be easy.  I hate to admit this, but he's too clever to let
himself be directly linked to any crime.  The only way to dismantle
his operation is piece by piece.  We've got to arrest enough of them
nickel-and-dime hoods to lure Big Boy into making a crucial mistake.
   Sam Catchem and Pat Patton will be working with you at Police
Headquarters--you know you can always count on them for help.  About all
I can tell you right now is to get back on the streets: look for clues,
talk to your informants, drop in on friends if you need to--just get out
there and start putting those pieces together.
   Attached is the Detective Procedure Handbook which was updated last
week.  You know I think you're an ace detective, but I'm asking you to
review it so you don't make any procedural errors.  Remember when 
Numbers' counterfeiting case was botched?  Numbers got off without a
wrinkle and that unlucky detective now investigates expired parking
meters.  A mistake can cost us a case--and the more we lose, the more
these two-bit mugs win.
   Again, welcome back.  Now let's get the grease off the streets!

                                               Chief B.
lh-cb

|Page 1|

Detective Procedure Handbook

Section 1: Crime Case Assignment                      Page 2

 1.1 Case Load
 1.2 Criteria for Promotion
 1.3 Headquarter Support Staff
     1.3a Crime Lab
     1.3b Squad Car
     1.3c Squad Room
     1.3d Rogues' Gallery
 1.4 Criminal File
 1.5 Crime File

Section 2: Law Enforcement Equipment                  Page 3

 2.1 Two-Way Wrist Radio
 2.2 Health Meter
 2.3 Squad Car
 2.4 Bugs

Section 3: Criminal Interface Procedures              Page 5
 
 3.1 Personality Variations
 3.2 Vehicle Pursuit 
 3.3 Suspect Confrontation

Section 4: Evidence Acquisition                       Page 6

 4.1 Questioning Victims
 4.2 Gathering Physical Evidence
 4.3 Tailing a Criminal

Section 5: Arrest Procedures                          Page 7

 5.1 Questioning Victims
 5.2 Arrests
 5.3 Crime in Progress

|Page 2|

Section 1: Crime Case Assignment

1.1 Case Load: Regardless of what crimes are on the books, a detective
    will be assigned to only one case at a time.  A detective must 
    solve a case before he will be assigned a new one.

1.2 Criteria for Promotion: Solving a case by arresting the correct
    criminal without violating established procedures is criteria
    for promotion.  Ranks within the investigative divisions are
    Detective Junior Grade, Detective, Detective First Class, and
    Chief of Detectives.  The following violations may result in
    demotion: 1) Arresting the wrong person, 2) Not acquiring
    sufficient evidence to support an arrest, and 3) Repeated stays in
    the hospital.

1.3 Headquarters Support Staff: From Police Headquarters a detective 
    of any rank has complete access to the Crime Lab, Squad Room,
    Squad Car, and Rogues' Gallery.

    1.3a   Crime Lab: Sam Catchem supervises the crime lab.  All
           evidence discovered in the field will be analyzed by the
           lab.  Catchem personally reviews all findings with each
           detective before storing the results in the Crime File.

    1.3b   Squad Car: See Section 2.3 for proper squad car checkout
           procedures.

    1.3c   Rogues' Gallery: The Rogues' Gallery allows access to two
           important files: the Criminal File and the Crime File.  The
           Criminal File (Section 1.4) contains rap sheets on known
           criminals.  The Crime File (Section 1.5) details the crime
           a detective is currently assigned to investigate.

|Page 3|

1.4 Criminal File: The Rogues's Gallery displays a group of criminals 
    currently under investigation.  To review a criminal's records, 
    position his mug shot under the magnifying glass; the criminal's 
    rap sheet automatically opens to accompany his photo.

    Sam Catchem updates the Rogues' Gallery as necessary.  He will 
    remove Criminal Files of those who have been arrested or dismissed 
    as suspects and will add those who warrant investigation.
 
    All evidence collected on a criminal and any clues retrieved from 
    his hideout is recorded into his Criminal File.

1.5 Crime File: The Crime File contains details on the type of crime 
    that occurred, the address at which it took place, and the time 
    and date it was suspected that the crime was executed.  Also stored 
    in the Crime File are clues from the crime scene and evidence from 
    informants and witnesses.

Section 2: Law Enforcement Equipment

2.1 Two-Way Wrist Radio: One of the most important advances to law
    enforcement in recent years has been a invention of the two-way
    wrist radio.  Specially developed by Smith Industries, the two-way
    wrist radio allows a detective to remain in constant contact with
    Headquarters, so he can be immediately notified when a crime is          
    reported.

    The two-way wrist radio also alerts a detective to any activity that
    his bugs pick up.  A well-placed bug can alert a detective to a crime
    that is about to occur.

2.2 Health Meter: The Health Meter is a new piece of required equipment.
    The device, which comes in the form of a small cloth "dot", is
    placed behind the ear and is imperceptible to the wearer.  The
    Health Meter allows Headquarters to monitor a detective's overall 
    physical condition.  The department will not allow a detective to
    remain on the streets if his health is perilously drained.

    These things have been shown to adversely affect health: falls,
    gun shots, sewer water, and collisions with objects (while on foot).
    As a detective's health deteriorates, the Health Meter changes from
    green to red.

    If the Health Meter runs out, a detective is required to check into
    the hospital to recuperate, after which he will be returned to
    Headquarters.  Because repeated trips to the hospital suggest
    inattention to personal safety, a detective may be demoted for
    chronic trips to the hospital.

|Page 4|

A Health Meter does not need to be completely red to adversely affect
performance; when it is predominately red, a detective's performance 
will begin to suffer.  If a detective is in pursuit of a criminal, he
may not have enough energy required to sustain the chase.  The 
department strongly recommends that each detective voluntarily submit
himself to a rest program when necessary.

Tracy

I know two things that should keep you in top shape: Tess & Mike's
Diner.  If your gal is as good with the first aid as she is with 
meatloaf, she can patchup all your scuffs.  And I know you'll find
this hard to believe- a bowl of chili from Mike's Diner could put the
shine back on your shoes.  Sometimes a little break with a cup of
joe and gut-sticking chili is all you need.  In case you haven't
heard, the diner moved into a bigger joint on 9th.  Don't go hanging
around either too often-bad for the heart.  Dames make it too fast,
chili makes it burn.

                                             Chief B.

2.3 Squad Car: A the beginning of a shift, each detective is assigned
    a clean squad car from the garage.

    Like a detective's Health Meter, each squad car has a Damage Meter.      
    As a squad car receives damage, the Damage Meter changes from green 
    to red.  The more distressed a squad car is, the worst it will
    perform.  Three actions have accounted for the largest percentage of
    squad car damage: bumping pedestrians, striking other cars, and
    receiving gunfire from criminals.

    The state of a vehicle is critical during pursuit-a criminal may
    easily outrace a squad car if the vehicle is extensively damaged
    and running poorly.  The department recommends that a squad car
    be returned to a department garage for repairs as often as
    necessary.  Four department garages are open all day/all night
    to service the fleet: 42 1st Street, 200 2nd Street, 16 7th Street,
    and 114 10th Street.

|Page 5|

2.4 Bugs: Proper use of bugs provides the detective with a clever way
    of staying one jump ahead of the crooks.  A detective starts with
    three bugs.  For each crime that is solved, an additional bug is
    rewarded.  Bugs can only be planted in a criminal's hideout, but
    they can be planted, picked up, and replanted at any time.  A
    detective is alerted on his two-way wrist radio whenever a bug 
    detects criminal activity.  Bugs Baily is in charge of replanting
    a bug whenever a criminal relocates his hideout.

Section 3: Criminal Interface Procedures

3.1 Personality Variations: Criminals come in all shapes, sizes- and
    tempers.  Some are passive and relatively cooperative when pulled
    over.  Others are highly agitated and prone to shooting when
    confronted.

3.2 Vehicle Pursuit: During vehicular pursuit, the suspect's vehicle
    will appear on the squad car monitor.  There are three methods of
    pulling a suspect over:

    1) The first and least confrontational is to turn on the squad car
       siren during pursuit.  Depending on the suspect's personality
       type, he may voluntarily pull over at this point.

    2) If the siren is on but the suspect fails to yield, a detective
       has the option of shooting out the tires to disable the suspect's 
       vehicle.  As the suspect's car takes damage, his car's Damage
       Meter drops from right to left.  When the suspect's Damage Meter
       turns red, the suspect will be forced to abandon his car.

    3) Maneuvering a squad car in front of a suspect's vehicle will force
       him to stop.

3.3 Suspect Confrontation: A detective has three options after pulling
    over a suspect:

    1) Grill the suspect.  Criminals react differently to a good, hard
       grill.  Some buckle under the force of intimidation and will talk,
       while others interpret a show of force as an invitation to shoot.
       A detective should make his decision based on the number of people
       he is confronted with and how the suspect is behaving.

       If a gun battle breaks out, the suspect may try to flee.  The
       suspect may be pursued on foot until he escapes, a detective's
       health fails, or the detective apprehends the suspect.

       2) Arrest the suspect.  Each detective is required to obtain the
          proper evidence to validate an arrest.  A premature or false
          arrest is grounds for demotion.  See Section 5: Arrest
          Procedures for guidelines.

       3) Return to the squad car.  If a detective does not believe this
          is the proper time to approach the suspect, he may return to
          his squad car.

|Page 6|

Section 4: Evidence Acquisition

4.1 Questioning Victims: ALways question victims at the scene of the 
    crime.  They may be able to provide critical information on the
    perpetrator.

4.2 Gathering Physical Evidence: Detectives must keep in ind that 
    criminals can be as negligent as they are malicious.  When
    investigating crime scenes, hideouts, or other suspicious areas,
    take all evidence to the Crime Lab for analysis.

4.3 Tailing A Criminal: A detective may follow any suspect to his
    hideout.  The opportunity to search a suspect's hideout may yield
    solid evidence linking the suspect to the crime.  Locating a
    criminal's hideout also provides the opportunity for bug planting.
    A suspect should not be pursued too closely or he may become alarmed
    and attempt to flee.

Tracy

I hear that Breathless Mahoney may be sitting on some information.  You
might want to pay her a professional visit.  She's at the Club Ritz.
And word is that your little buddy, The Kid, gets around too.  The last
report said he was staying somewhere on 5th Street, but he's been
jumpy lately and moves around after someone makes contact with him.
The boys tell me that it's only worth checking in with Kid after you
narrow it down to a couple of thugs; otherwise, the dirt that The Kid
gives you ain't all that firm.

                                     Chief B.

|Page 7|

Section 5: Arrest Procedures

5.1 Prior to Arrest: A good detective uses evidence like height and
    hair color to pinpoint the suspect.  Using the information in each
    criminal's file to dismiss certain suspects while focusing the
    investigation on others is the foundation for solid detective work.
    Statements from witnesses and informants also bolster a case.     

    A case is significantly strengthened if evidence can be gathered
    from a suspect's hideout.  The Crime Lab will analyze the evidence;
    if they are able to verify that it came from the scene of the crime,
    that becomes damaging evidence linking the suspect to the crime.
    Blood, fingerprints, and items from the scene of the crime are
    especially incriminating.

5.2 Arrests: Arresting a criminal should only be done after ample evidence
    has been gathered to support an arrest.  In recent years, numerous 
    cases have been thrown out due to improper police procedure or lack
    of evidence.  A premature or false arrest will result in a demotion.

5.3 Crime in Progress: No case is more open and shut than catching a
    criminal in the act of committing a crime.  If a detective is at 
    the scene of a crime in progress, he should move in and make the
    arrest,  Every detective should exercise extreme caution in these
    volatile situations.  Although not as indisputable as arresting
    a criminal in the act of committing a crime, observing a criminal
    in the act of committing a crime, observing a criminal fleeing 
    the scene of a crime is excellent evidence when building a case
    against him.

SKID ROW 1991  SKID ROW 1991  SKID ROW 1991  SKID ROW 1991  SKID ROW 1991
