			         SPACE WRECKED
		      14 Billion Light Years From Earth

		       Docs Brought to you By: SANDMAN



QUICK START LOADING AND PLAYING INSTRUCTIONS FOR AMIGA
This Quick Start Card is meant for those who are eager to get right into
Spacewrecked.  The card details all the necessary information on installing
and configuring the game for your system.  It then takes you through the
quickest route into your adventure.  Finally, it explains all the basic mouse
and/or keyboard commands you'll need to know to play the game.

Please note that Spacewrecked is a deep game with extensive detail-it is
recommended that you refer to the accompanying Game Manual for answers to 
specific game questions not addressed in the Quick Start Card.

STARTING THE GAME
The Game Interface

Spacewrecked is driven by an easy-to-use icon-interface and is designed for play
with a mouse on Amiga version.
The only time you need a keyboard is for punching numbers.  Throughout the
Quick Start Card and Game Manual, you will see the terms BUTTON1,BUTTON2, and
SELECT used frequently.  These are their definitions for your particular system:

BUTTON1 = Left Mouse button.
BUTTON2 = Right Mouse button.
SELECT  = Move the Mouse to position the cursor over the desired selection
	  and press BUTTON1 - the left mouse button.

P       = for Pause
ESC     = to reset the level


SAVING AND LOADING A SAVED GAME

On the Setup/Enter game screen, there are two keys.  The 'Save Game' icon is
an arrow pointing onto a disk, and the 'Load Game' icon is the arrow pointing
off a disk.
To Save a partially finished game, exit the Main Playing screen.  Then SELECT
the Save Game icon and you will be prompted to enter a letter, from A to M.
This will be the file name of your saved game.   Once you've entered a file
name, the game will be saved.  If you are playing the game from a floppy
disk, take care not to save onto your game disk.
To Load a Saved game, follow the above procedure, this time SELECTING the
'Load Saved Game' icon.  Again, you will be asked for a file name, from A
to M.  As soon as you enter this, the file will load.  When you return to
the Main Playing screen, the Saved game will be loaded and ready to resume
play.

COPY PROTECTION
To start the game, you can press any key to bypass the title screen and credits.
You will first be asked to locate one of the aliens found on the first 20
pages of the Game Manual.  SELECT either the Left or Right Arrow Icons to
scroll through pictures of all creatures.  When the pictured alien matches the
name you were asked to find, SELECT the square Exit Icon between the two
Arrow Icons.

THE GAME SETUP SCREEN
To get right into the game SELECT the Exit Icon on the Game Set-Up Screen.
(all options on this Screen are fully detailed on Page 5 of the Game Manual)

YOUR TASK
Sent on a mission to the other side of the universe, your ship collides with
the remains of an exploded moon, crippling your craft as well as destroying
your reserve fuel tanks.  Far from Earth, you have few options but to program
the computer for searhc-and-follow mode, hoping it will lead you to help
before you run completely out of fuel and are left drifting in space forever.
Placing yourself in Cryogenic suspension, you wish that sometimes, just once
in a while, things would go your way...

Seven years later, the computer wakes you to the sight of an entire fleet of
Scientific Survey Craft, badly damaged after time-warping into a nova, but
in better shape than your own vessel.  The long-lost Darwin Biological
Survey Fleet was the last to be equipped with the Interlok Navigational
System, which ran the entire fleet as a single unit from the flagship.
Phased out since then due to its inherent design flaw-damage to one ship
disables the whole fleet-it puts you in a tough spot.  Instead of simply
repairing the nearest craft and getting out of there, you'll need to board
each ship in turn, repair all of its systems, and then activate the fleet
from the flagship bridge.  Adding to your bad luck, the crewmembers-suffering
from extreme mental deterioration after the excruciating Slow Thaw from
Cryongenics-as well as the Survey's bizarre biological specimens, are roaming
the corridors and out for blood.  While dodging them, on each ship you must:

* Find the spare Energy Flux Decoupler and deliver it to the Power Room;
* Find the Inhibit Lock and return it to the bridge;
* Repair all the ship's systems to at least 80% efficiency.

As you investigate the malfunctioning systems, you will learn that, in most
cases, a lack of liquid coolant has caused the problem.  By replacing the
coolant liquid in the particular system room, you're likely to solve the
problem.  To carry out the repair you will need to:

* Locate a Manufacturing Room on board the ship and make some receptacles in
  which to carry the coolant (Complete details on the Manufacturing Screen
  are on Page 16 of the Game Manual);
* Find a laboratory and fill your receptacles with liquid coolant (Information
  on the Laboratory Screen is on Page 16 of the Game Manual);
* Finally, go to the room of the system you wish to repair and attempt the
  repair (The Repair Screen is described on Page 17 of the Game Manual);

Once you've made all repairs, found the Inhibit Lock, and replaced the Energy
Flux Decoupler, a mesage will prompt you to the bridge-after which you'll 
move on to the next ship in need of repair.

ABOARD THE SHIP

Here's a look at the Main Screen, from which most of the game is played:


    --------------------------------------------------------------
          1                                                 7 

                                                        
                2                      9             8     
 
                                              
    |3|                                       10
 
                 11
                5                
         4                              12
               6                                              no I'm not
							drawing these fuckers!
    ---------------------------------------------------------------

  1)  The current location or room.

  2)  The Main viewing screen.

  3)  The weapon reload bar.  You cannot fire and weapon repeatedly until
      it reloads or recharges-indicated when the reload bar reaches bottom.

  4)  Main stamina recorder.  This is an indicator of your general health and
      stamina.  Full health is shown by a complete face.  As you lose stamina
      points, it will slowly turn into a skull.  You can heal lost stamina
      on of four ways:

	* Naturally, over time;
	* Finding a Galley and eating food;
	* Injecting yourself with serums you find-not all of them will help
	  you however, some may harm you;
	* Using a robot with a medical cartridge (See Page 21 of the Game
	  Manual for details).

  5)  The lifetrace recorder, on an Amiga, tracks your pulse, which impacts
      how steadily your aim is in firing weapons.

  6)  If you're carrying a geiger counter, you can see the background
      radiation levels-radiation can put a quick end to your adventure, so 
      keep an eye on this meter.

  7)  Time elapsed since play began: You're working against the clock.

  8)  The hands display shows what items you're holding in your left hand and
      right hand.  The items can be swapped from one hand to the other by
      pointing the cursor to this display and pressing BUTTON1.
    
      Weapons can only be fired when held in your right hand!  To fire a weapon
      aim the cursor at the target on the main viewing screen and press BUTTON1

      All other items can be used in either hand.  Pointing the cursor at an
      item in this display and pressing BUTTON2 will use ot activate it,
      depending on its function.

  9)  The movement icons control your movement around the ship.  SELECT one
      of the four blue icons and you'll move one step in that direction.
      SELECT either of the two green icons to rotate left ot right 90-degrees.
      The two grey buttons to eithe side of the bottom blue icon will light up
      and display arrows when you enter a space with a ladder or elevator.

 10)  The Main message panel displays all pertinent game information.

 11)  The beating heart not only displays your heart rate, but your general
      health as well:  It will change color from scarlet to yellow to
      indicate radiation or poisoning-both of which can kill you.  The more
      yellow your heart, the more damage to your health.

 12)  The function buttons will show the icons of all commands available to
      you in each location.  The top six buttons are Game Control Functions
      and the bottom six are Robot Selection Buttons.  (For a full list of
      Game Control Functions, see Page 12 in the Game Manual.  Robot
      Selection and Controls can be found on Page 20).

 Two Game Control Functions are available to you at all times:

	* The far left button takes you to the Game Setup Screen;
	* The one to its immediate right takes you into the Inventory Screen
 	  where you can pickup, pack or carry items you find.  (the inventory
	  screen is fully described on page 8 of the game manual.)

When you enter any location that activates one of the other Game Control 
Functions-Computer Access,Recharging,Manufacturing,Laboratory, or Repair-
then that function's icon will appear.

To access and Function, SELECT its icon.
