Fighter Duel Pro2 Demo
2/14/94

Happy Holidays to all our loyal users and future FD'ers.  
Here is a treat for the holidays.

All files related to the Fighter Duel Pro2 demo are copyright ©1993-94 by
Jaeger Software, Inc.  As long as all files are kept together and intact,
they may be posted to any bulletin board system or used in the Fred Fish
collection.

Jaeger Software maintains a Category, Category 24 on GEnie for discussion
of all aspects of Fighter Duel Pro.  Jaeger representative, Matt Shaw
attends regularly.  Email address M.Shaw15 on GEnie, Internet,
M.Shaw15@genie.geis.com.

This is a flyable demo!  It just barely fits on a single disk, but it does
need some files from workbench which we can't distribute this way.
It will run fine from a ramdisk or from your harddisk.

FDPRo2 and it's demo requirments:

- Any Amiga model with Kickstart 1.2 or higher. 
- 2mb of Chip Ram or 2mb of Fast Ram.
  Runs on stock A1200s or A600s with just 2 mb of Chip Ram.
  (Make sure as much ram as possible is available on stock A1200 or A600s)
  Increased performance and added features with more ram and or advanced
  processors.
- AGA mode requires an Amiga 1200 or 4000 with a monitor capable of
  displaying DBLNTSC or DBLPAL NOFLICKER screen modes.
- Joystick, digital or analog.


Fighter Duel Pro2 has many features and playmodes.
See the file called NewFeaturesFDP2.

WHAT YOU GET.
With this demo you may fly any aircraft and or try out the new stationary
gunner.  You may fly against two enemy Spitfires in 1 Player Standard
modes. You may select other enemy aircraft to view their specifications,
but you will always actually get Spitfires.

WHAT YOU DON'T GET.
You can't pause while flying, therefore you can't access the in-flight menu
system that normally allows you to switch your aircraft, your enemies
aircraft and their skill levels.  To switch these you will have to reboot
and reselect. You can't save your preferences from the Startup-Interface.
None of our famous 2 player modes are allowed, including the new 2 Seater
 Pilot/Gunner modes and Wingman modes.


The FDPro2demo archive should contain:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

FDPro2.demo -- (The startup-interface)

FDPro2.demo.info -- (It's icon)

ToOrder  -- (file that is copied to your printer if your select PRINT FORM)
            (from interface)

AboutDemo -- (This file)

NewFeaturesFDP2 -- (New Feature list)

DATA -- (Directory for data files.  These must be in a directory named DATA)

	AG-934 -- (Datafile)

	AG-951 -- (Datafile)

	VF-11  -- (Datafile)

	VF-17  -- (Datafile)

	DataFile1 -- (Main Datafile1)

	DataSet.2 -- (Main Datafile2)

	FDPro2Data.Set -- (Main demo data set)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

AGA MODE

To utilize FDPro2.Demo's new AGA mode, set your workbench for NTSC or Double
PAL, and turn mode promotion on in preferences. Ethernet software software
should be disabled before running this demo.

WARNING

Warning: This program takes over and stops all other tasks once you hit the
BEGIN FLIGHT button.  You will have to reboot to quit.


RUNNING FDPRO2.DEMO FROM THE CLI

To run FDPro2.Demo from the CLI or from a program launching program that simulates
CLI launch, follow these instructions.
Cd to the directory in which FDPro2.demo resides. Give FDPro2.demo its path as a
command line arguement enclosed in double quotes. Make sure to add a trailing
backslash if the path does not end in a full colon.
 
Example CLI script:

CD dh1:FlightSims/FDP2DEMO
FighterDuelPro2 "dh1:FlightSims/FDP2DEMO/"

 
USING THE CH FLIGHTSTICK PRO ANALOG JOYSTICK

To use a CH FlightStick Pro's top "hat"
switch with FDPro2, you must either have an IDD Amiga Smart Port or an
analog adapter specially wired for use with FDPro2 and the FlightStick Pro.
Except for the IDD Amiga Smart Port, all known adapters do not have the proper
wiring for the "hat". This includes the DigiPrint adapter. Without the proper
adapter, the "hat" will only show you the view to the rear. 

REARVIEW

FDPro2 and its demo have the ability to hook another Amiga to its parallel
port and have it display the rearview from the aircraft at all times. 
This requires a FDPro Parallel adapter and two centronics parallel cables.
The adapter is available from Jaeger Software, Inc.
See the order form for details.

KEYBOARD COMMANDS

Here are most of the new keyboard equivalents for aircraft functions in FDP2.

P     = Pauses Program and allows access to in-flight menus ( NOT IN DEMO )

Q     = Quiet, toggles on and off sound.

0     = Recenter Analog stick and or Analog rudder pedals

T     = Move at 16 times present velocity. Known as Turbo mode.

B     = War Emergency power(Boost) only on certain aircraft.

S     = Score

Del/Help = Brakes while on deck.

Both mouse buttons = Adjusts Lead computing optical gunsight. Move it
                     forward and back.

View Cursor keys:
	left and right  =  look left and right.
	forward         = look straigh up.
	back            = look back.
	left & forward  = look left and 45 degrees up
	right & forward = look right and 45 degrees up

Help  = Locks view

Del   = Cancels view lock

A     = Arm/Disarm guns/glidescope indicator

G     = Landing gear cycle

H     = Lower hook.

W & E = Flaps up and down.

L     = Launch from catapult.

Z     = Throttle Up

X     = Throttle Down

C     = Left Rudder

V     = Right Rudder

F     = Center Rudder

