4 Aug 96:
  Released open beta test of version 2.0
  
10 Aug 96:
  Rewrote the overview map handler to redraw the map on the first  click of
the map where the mouse is at that time.  Eliminated the  ability to drag
the red map box around the overview.  This was causing problems with losing
the mouse and not stamping down if the mouse was in the title bar area.

  Fixed a bug where the hex marker was being drawn over the lower buttons
if you did anything with the force pools.

Fixed a problem with the replay, where sometimes the screen wasn't being
cleared of non-combatants.  This happened if the last unit in the combat
list ended the movement in a forcepool.

Fixed a fatal bug if the replay was terminated when a unit was in motion. 
The unit bob was not being removed properly.

11 Aug 96:
  Corrected a problem with the introduction, where the palette was not
reinitialized to allow the user to see an alert if a loading error
occurred, such as not being able to find the iff.library. [This one's for
you, Todd!  ;) ]

13 Aug 96:
  Bryan Weitzel reported a bug with the encryption code, where the return
was unreadable.  Discovered a couple of problems with the way it was
encoding having to do with endo of line sequences.  The function was
reading more numbers from the tearoff pad than it was supposed to each
line, causing the encode and decode to get out of step.  Also found and
hopefully stomped an intermittant bug where sometimes an encrypted comment
would mask another comment right after it if you got the code wrong.

17 Aug 96:
  Noticed a dismaying regularity to the random number generator.  The
patterns that were coming up were anything but random.  Appaerently the
compiler's random number generator leaves something to be desired.  I
fiddled with it a bit, and finally came up with an acceptable solution by
making pseudo-random calls to the same random number table used in the
encryption algorithm.  This generated a much better semblance of
randomness, since even though the calls to the random table have a pattern,
the table itself doesn't, and there are enough numbers there to prevent a
recognizable pattern from forming.

15 Feb 97:
  Fixed a bug where the replay was being hung up in a savedgame sent to me.
Strange things seemed to be happening with that replay that I was neither
able to duplicate nor understand, but I found why it was hanging and put in
a trap for that.   Also worked on new ways of opening the screen to try to
fix the AGA mode promotion problem.

16 Feb 97: 
  Completed a new feature that allows players to encode files for internet
transfer and read back the same files without having to use an outside
encoding program like UUencode.  See the amiga guide docs for more
information. 

4 May 97:
  Changed the way I open the screen to copy the workbench and change only
the attributes I need to change.  This is an attempt to fix the AGA
mode-promotion problem.

   Fixed a bug wherein the save function always encoded the file for the
internet.

   Fixed a bug in the file naming system that prevented from loading
modules from other than the default directory.

11 May 97 
   Fixed a bug with the menus where the reset playback routine was
sometimes called after another menu routine was executed.

12 May 97
   fixed bugs in the file requesters where they wouldn't recognize a path
name where the file was located in a root drive.

13 May 97
  Put screen opening code back the way it was because my AGA beta tester
said the clonescreen was worse than the old way. Changed the dripen calls
so that the ASL requesters aren't screwed up with openscreentags (duh).

7 June 97
   Fixed a reported bug with the way I was opening the screen.  I
apparently was not looking at the screen mode ID correctly to determine if
I needed to promote the screen to high res laced.