4 Aug 96:
  Released open beta test of version 2.0c
  
10 Aug 96:
  Rewrote the overview map handler to redraw the map on the first  click of
the map where the mouse is at that time.  Eliminated the  ability to drag
the red map box around the overview.  This was causing problems with losing
the mouse and not stamping down if the mouse was in the title bar area.

  Fixed a bug where forcepool names 5, 6 and 7 were initialized as integer
gadgets.

  Fixed a problem with the Order of Battle editor.  The Names weren't being
cleared from the roster before new names were overwritten, and it became
quite confusing if you had been using if for any time at all.

Replaced the default.abk data file.  Somehow the palette was the version 1
palette.

11 Aug 96:
  Corrected a reported problem with the hex usage summary not returning
correctly to the map editor.

  Corrected a problem with the introduction, where the palette was not
reinitialized to allow the user to read the alert when an error occurred.

23 Feb 97:
        Changed the way the screen opens, and set up the ASL requester so
they look better.

13 March 97:
  Added coordinate system number 12 to the auto-coordinate function. 
Discovered a bug in the alphabetical coordinate functions that caused a
double "@" character instaed of "Z".  Corrected all alpha coordinate
functions.

20 April 97
  Fixed a bug in the new file routine that limited the user to 999 units. 
The correct value is around 10,000.


4 May 97
   Changed the way the screen is opened to copy the workbench and change
only the attributes I need to change.

21 May 97
  Installed a new feature which allows the user to add more units than
originally specified in the scenario start.  NOTE:  Experienced a crash
after using the editor for a couple of hours after doing this.  I'm doing
some memory allocation and de-allocation in this routine which should be
safe, and I'm not sure the crash was in any way related, and I've been
unable to duploicate it. You may want to save your work and restart if you
do this.

22 May 97
  Changed the screen opening routine back to using open screentags, but
copy the workbench mode ID if it's something better than highres laced.

   Found and crushed a couple of bugs with the unit copy F10 and F9
functions.

7 June 97 
  Fixed a reported bug with the way I was opneing the screen.  I
apparently wasn't interpreting the screen mode ID correctly to see if I
needed to promote it to high res laced.