                                 BLOOD MONEY

Typed by SIDEWINDER of LSD.


Blood Money takes you on an Alien Safari across the untamed horizons of four
hostile planets.  The organisers charge varying rates of admission to each
planet but have devised a unique way of rewarding successful hunters.

PLANET 1
Only 100 credits to sample the delights of Gibba, the most hostile planet of
the Numm System.  Helicopter gunship is laid on, but watch out for the floor
and ceiling gun emplacements...

PLANET 2
200 credits gets you a valid hunter's licence for Grone.  It's worth every
one.  Transport on Grone is by submarine, and this strange undersea world
contains a multitude of colourful and frightening opponents.

PLANET 3
300 credits and you can land on the terrifying terrain of Shreek.  This is a
very superior planet indeed.  Travellers are provided with the latest in
personal jetpack systems.  Lots of plunder can be taken here, but you'll need
the weapons it can buy - the native's are extremely unfriendly.

PLANET 4
Yes, everyone's heard of Snuff.  The tickets cost 400 credits but we at ASP
(Alien Safari Promotions) believe that this planet offers the ultimate in
blasting and plundering.  We should add that no-one has yet returned from
this particular trip.

The view on your computer screen is relayed to you direct by ASP Holovision
Satellite Enterprises and show's our cameras' view of your ship as you jaunt
through the worlds of Gibba, Grone, Shreek, and Snuff.  We chose these worlds
because of the extraordinary wildlife - all of it enchantingly hostile -
and...well, we think the welcoming committee says it all.

Your craft is controlled by Joystick.  Of course we hope you've chosen an ASP
Super Slayer Mk. IV, but if not, no matter, though perhaps we should point
out that the Super Slayer is guarateed to prolong active life by at least a
minute and without that you don't stand a dog's chance.
Naturally we realise that the excitement may prove too much for some of you.
For that reason, we've made provisions for you to be accompanied by a
sucker...sorry...Friend of your choice.

Some of the scenes you may encounter are slightly disturbing.  In fact, you
may pass out momentarily with terror.  If you do, try your best to hit the
SPACEBAR first, pausing the action.  When you've recovered your nerve, hit
FIRE to continue.

Everybody likes a bit of music to murder by.  F3 on the Player Selection
Screen brings you the rousing National Anthems of the Tone Terrorists of
Delta 5.  Those of you who really want to savour the action can use F3 to
toggle between the music and the sound effects picked up by the microphone
mounted on your ship (or space suit for those lucky players who savour the
landscape of Shreek.

Finally, in case of emergency, you may press the ESCAPE button to abort the
mission and return.  There is absolutely no shame attached to this action,
which is - of course - what any sane individual would do as soon as he
catches sight of Gibban wildlife, let alone the inhabitants of Snuff.  Just
one small point - wimp out and we'll break your legs.  Now just sit back,
relax, and enjoy.

FIREPOWER
Here at ASP we've really gone overboard in our choice of tours for the 2121
season.  The planets on offer give you unparalleled opportunities for death
and destruction, and to help you, we've provided a bit-blasting selection of
weaponry available at a nominal charge in Equipment Shops throughout the
planetary systems.  Here's your firepower checklist:

$100    -       Support missile, skybound.
$100    -       Support missile, earthbound.
$150    -       Neuron Bomb.
                There are four bombs available.  The first two selected are
                programmed for short-range destruction fore and aft of your
                vessel.  The second pair are designed for long range targets.
$150    -       Support rear-fire missile.
$200    -       Long range missile capability.

PLUS...
We also have the pleasure of offering the following branded pilot-survival
systems, all supplied by well known and reliable manufacturers:

$200    -       'Kleen Heels Supa-Drive'
                We chose the 'Kleen Heels' drive for its unparalleled service
                record and combination of maximum thrust with minimum cost.
$250    -       'Norton Thunder-Thru'
                The Norton has a remarkable reputation for boosting health and
                efficiency.  Relied on by the professionals, the Norton is
                guaranteed to put an extra tiger in your tank for those
                awkward moments when the natives are getting especially
                restless and life seems...well, limited.
$250    -       'Dr. Martens Aero-Soul Mk VI'
                As everyone knows, the Mark VI aero-soul provides clone
                duplication without the unfortunate side-effects associated
                with the Mark V model.  Guaranteed to put an extra body in the
                lifebanks should you run out of personal backups.

End.
