                                CAPITAL GAIN

Typed by JERRY ADLESTON.  Edited by PARASITE.


Capital Gain  is a simple game of but it low and sell it high based on the
stock market.
You have one year to male your fortune and you can buy and sell as many times
as you want. The game ends
1. At the end of the year.
2. When some one makes a billion dollars
3. When you quit the game.
There is also a save game option that lets you pick up where you left off.

There are five different categories of stocks and five corporations within
each category for a total of twenty five corporations that you can buy stocks
from.

You start out with a net worth of $10,000.00 which is all in cash. when you
first start the game the portfolio screen is showing. This screen shows:
1. Your CASH ON HAND (how much cash is available)
2. Your NET WORTH    (The total amount of your cash and the current value of
   your stocks)
3. How many shares of each stock you own  and how much you paid for it.
4. How much the stock is currently selling for
5. The H.J.I.A. ( The Hugh  Jones  Industrial Average) (an accumulative amount
   of all the stocks)
6. The THREE DAY TREND (what the market has done the past three days)
7. The Date.

The game is for one or two players.
Each player has the option to buy or sell at any time. Once a player finishes
his transactions he can pass the turn over to the other player. When both
players have finished you RETURN TO MARKET. This screen shows:

1. The TICKER TAPE (Which scrolls the current prices of the stocks and NEWS
BULLETINS).
2. Each players portfolio.
Each time the Ticker Tape scrolls through the prices, a day has past.

DIVIDENDS:
Each day you collect dividends on the stock you own. Based on the number of
shares you own and the current value of the stock. At any time, from the main
portfolio screen you can CHECK DIVIDENDS here you can see how much you have
collected from each company.(helps you to see which stocks are worth hanging
on to). You also collect interest from the bank on the cash you have.

If you get in trouble from the S.E.C  you will have to pay a fine. Be careful
the interest builds fast you don't have to pay it all right away but you
shouldn't wait to long either.

The game is pretty self explanatory. Watch each company, they  all have there
own personality there is even one junk bond in there, you can get rich quick
or go broke fast with it.
One other thing worth mentioning, if you own shares of a stock and it's value
drops to $0.00 then that company is bankrupt and you lose all your shares of
it.

End.
