        CHAMPIONS OF KRYNN-  A DRAGONLANCE Fantasy RPG EPIC, VOL.I

Typed by LORD THOR & the BALLZ BOYS.  Edited by PARASITE.


INTRODUCTION:
CHAMPIONS OF KRYNN begins after the war of the lance.  The evil armies have
been shattered and most of the forces of good have returned to their
homelands, leaving only outposts to safeguard the recovered lands. Your goal
is to assemble a party of adventures to save in these border outposts.
The newly created party appears at an outpost south of the former hobgoblin
capital of Throtl with orders to scour the area for any sign of lingering
evil. After outfitting your characters with weapons and armor, the party is
ready to begin adventuring.

*NOTE: I have also included the Journal ENTRIES and the Definition of some
spells!

BEGINNING to PLAY:
To begin playing the game you must load a saved game or generate characters
and band them together into a party.  This first menu gives you the intial
options:
CREATE NEW CHARACTER
ADD CHARACTER TO PARTY
LOAD SAVED GAME
EXIT TO DOS

CREATE NEW CHARACTER is used to build a character. This command displays the
following menus to define the character. Detailed information about
characters,races,classes and son is available in the Journal.
*PICK RACE lists seven races a player-character can be on the world of Krynn.
*PICK GENDER lists the sex the character can be.  Gender affects the
character's maximum strength.
*PICK CLASS lists the class or classes the character is qualified for based
on his race.
*CHOOSE GOD (Clerics only) lists all the gods available. Each deity will
confer special powers to clerics.  The god chosen will be available to a
cleric.
*PICK ALIGNMENT lists all the possible alignments for the character bases
on character class.

ADVENTURING:
After setting up your party and reading the background info in the adventure's
journal, it is time to head for adventure, fame and glory. During your
adventuring the party will engage in fierce battles, find treasure and
sometimes have to stop to recuperate and memorize spells for future use.
Champions of Krynn uses four different points of view:3-D, area, overland,
and combat.
3-D appears in towns, underground and so on. This view appears at the top,
left of your screen and shows the surrounding area from the party's
perspective.  Rotate the party's facing and move ising the directional
controls.  Their direction controls for your computer are described on the
data card.
Area provides an overhead view of the party's surroundings, replacing the
3-d view. Choose the area command from the adventure menu to see the position
of major obstructions such as walls, trees, and water.  A cursor shows the
party's position.  The area view can only be accessed while in 3-D view, on
others the view is only there to help you get your bearings.
Overland displays a map of the area of the world Krynn where this game takes
place.  This view appears while the party is moving outside of the outpost
or towns.  A cursor shows the party's current locations.  To move on the
overland map, move the cursor with the directional controls along the path
the party is to follow.  A map in the journal shows the same map with the
major locations named.

ADVENTURE MENU:
AREA toggles between the area and the 3-D view.  If the party is lost or
unfamiliar territory is found this command will not work.
CAST displays the cast menu so the active character can throw a magic spell.
See the section of magic in the hournal for a descriptions on how some spells
work.
VIEW displays the character screen and the view menu.
SEARCH toggles searching on/off. A party moving with search off is moving at
a normal rate and takes 1 minute per move. With it on the party takes 10 mins
this would be helpfull when searching for doors, and traps, treasure and
other things one might encounter in a dungeon.
LOOK is used to search an individual square.  Executing a look command acts
if the party moved into the current square with search on.

ENCAMP:
This is where you can SAVE, VIEW, MAGIC MEMORIZE, And REST up your character.
Remember before casting spells you have to rest and memorize them first!

MAGIC:
To get magic menu options, the active character must be able to cast spells.
Spell casters can get a list of their memorized spells from the CAST option
of the magic menu.  They can get a list of their spells on scrolls from the
scribe option of the magic menu.
MAGIC MENU:
CAST displays the cast menu and the characters list of memorized spells.
Select the spell to cast and then indicate the target of the spell.  Once a
spell is cast it is gone from memory and must be memorized again in order to
use it.  Some spells only have effect when in combat and others may only be
cast while encamped.
MEMORIZE displays the Memorize menu, character's grimoire of spells or
clerical spell list, and how many spells can be memorized from the level of
the spell castor.  When you want to memorize them, hit REST and you will
actually take time to memorize them.
SCRIBE lists all the spells on the scroll, the spells must be identified in
a shop or in a mages hut.  Scribing a spell takes about the same to memorize
one.  REST again if hit will continue this process taking time out of the
game to do your command.

CIVILIZATION:
Civilazation provides many valuable services for the adventurer.  Generally
only outposts will have inns, armouries, halls, temples and Bars, but some
may be found in towns and elsewhere.  When you are in an outpost a menu like
the following may appear, allowing you to select where you want to go:
PLACE OPTIONS (Hall, Temple, etc.) will take you to the selected
establishment and give you all appropriate options.  There is a description
of these places following this menu.
NEXT, PREV display other place options.
LEAVE will take the party out of the outpost, into the overland map.
INNS provide a safe place to rest using the Encamp menu. While the characters
rest they can memorize spells and regain hit points.
ARMOURIES provide a play to buy and sell equipment using the Armoury menu:
*SELL causes the character screen with the SELL and ID commands available
in the items menu.
*ID is used to identify an item.  The armoury charges 100 steel pieces for
service.
TAKE is used to pick up coins from the party's money pool. Indicate the type
and amount of coins, gems, or jewelry to take.
POOL places all the party money in one characters account
SHARE picks up everything from the pool and distributes it evenly between
the party's members
APPRAISE is use by the amoury to examine gems and other fine jewelry, and
even has a SELL feature to it.  SO this inables to you peddle off your booty.
HALLS are where character can advance levels and modify the party using the
PArty/creation/hall menu. Halls are also where knight characters may petition
for admission into a higher order.
Temples can cast healing spells an perform other clerical services.

ENCOUNTERS:
COMBAT allows the party to attack the monsters. Fighting is explained in the
combat section.
WAIT allows the monsters to decide what to do.  They amy attack, wait, flee
or advance.
FLEE causes the party to run away, if the monsters try to attack and are
faster then the part, combat will occur.
ADVANCE reduces the range to the monsters.  When the monsters are adjacent
to the party the ADVANCE command is replaces by the PARLAY command.
PARLAY allows the party to speak with monsters. Select the active character
and then choose a conversation tactic from the parlay menu.
MENU:
*HAUGHTY means that the speaker is trying to demonstrate his superiority
over the monsters.
*SLY menas that the speaker is trying to get info out of the monsters
without them realizing it
*MEEK menas that the speaker is trying to convince the monsters that the
party is not worth attacking.
*NICE means that the speaker is trying to be nice to the monsters.
*ABUSIVE means that the speaker is trying to browbeat or threaten information
of of the monsters.
*SPEED changes the game speed and is described under the Alter menu in ENCAMP.

End.
