                          PERSIAN GULF INFERNO

Typed in by PARANOIMIA.  Edited by PARASITE.


GAME OBJECTIVE
Somewhere hidden on the massive oil rig is a live nuclear warhead
on a preset countdown to destruction.  You must find and properly disarm
the warhead before the timer reaches zero and the warhead detonates.
To do this you are going to need both equipment and expert help.

The rig is a massive structure divided into two sections.  As the game
begins you start the smaller right hand section.  To move about,
use the stairs and ladders.  There are also four elevators.  You'll
only have access to one in the beginning, but by finding the three
elevator cards you'll be able to unlock the others.  Through out the
complex you'll find many doors.  Most are locked and to open these
you'll need to find key cards.  Behind these doors are both the
equipment you'll need (Key cards, elevator cards and weapons) and the
hostages that you'll need to rescue for their technical expertise.

As the game starts you are armed with only an automatic pistol and 5
magazines.  You must conserve your ammo until more can be located.
Weapons and ammunition may be found through out the complex.  Look
for a shot gun and a sub-machine pistol, each are very effective in
their own way.

The only other equipment you start with are shaped plastic explosive
charges that can be used as alternatives to the key cards for opening
doors.

CONTROLS

JOYSTICK UP
  1. When on stairs or ladders        - Hero moves up
  2. In front of unlocked doors       - Hero enters room
  3. In front of elevator             - gets elevator to current floor
  4. Inside elevator                  - takes elevator up

JOYSTICK RIGHT
  Hero runs right

JOYSTICK DOWN
  1. When on stairs or ladders        - Hero moves down
  2. Inside elevator                  - takes elevator down
  3. Normal conditions                - Hero kneels in firing position
  4. Step left or right after         - Hero tumbles into kneeling
     immediately pulling the            firing position
     joystick down

JOYSTICK LEFT
   Hero runs left

KEYBOARD COMMANDS
Space Bar:             When in front of door, places an explosive charge.

F1, F2, F3, Keys:      After finding other weapons, change weapons by
                       depressing Function Keys.

SCREEN LAYOUT
The upper two thirds of the screen is used for the scrolling play field.

The lower third is a menu containing the following:

  1. Weapon and ammunition information
  2. Elevator and key card information
  3. Current floor level indicator
  4. Hero's damage indicator

HINTS AND TIPS
To find the bomb you must rescue the hostages and gather information
from them.

Writing down what the hostages say can be a good idea.

Somewhere among the hostages is a Doctor who can field treat your wounds.

Some of the hostages are frightened and confused and their insights are
often general.  Starting a search pattern based on the information
you've received is a sound strategy.

Remember to move quickly away after placing an explosive charge.

The Pistol is the most ineffective weapon, it has low muzzle velocity,
th chamber action is slow, and it will take several shots to take out
a target.

The 12 Gauge Pump Shotgun is slow to fire.  Each round must be hand
pumped into the chamber.  It is very effective however, one round will
take out one of the terrorists.

The Uzi has low stopping power but it's rapid fire makes up for this.
Take out whole corridors in seconds.

IF you succeed in finding the bomb, you'll still have to disarm it.
There are four colored wires and you must cut one of them... but which
one?  Cut the wrong wire and you'll be standing at ground zero in the
biggest fireball the worlds ever seen.

End.
