                        WINGS OF FURY

Typed by ???  Edited by PARASITE.


TAKING OFF -
Taxi towards the aft end (to the right of the screen) of
the ship to get enough distance to take off.  Turn back towards
the bow of the ship and go full throttle.  When the tail of the plane
lifts you have reached take-off speed!   Go For IT Dude !

BOMB BUILDINGS FIRST -
This puts all the soldiers in gun pits.  Then Simply BOMB
the pits and make your Strifing Runs REALLY Count !

ENEMY PLANES -
You'll know when they are comming by the RED ARROWS in the Sight Window.
You'll also notice a 2 digit counter under the Score Counter after you
take out an Enemy Aircraft.  This tallys up the number ya take out.
They're worth 350 points each.  Machine Gun em' up the tail pipe for
best results, also you'll need to be full throttle to keep up to them
and make the shots count.  As you hit em' they'll turn, stay with them
- it takes several good hits to down one.  Also, don't let them take ya
out further than ya have fuel to get back with.

MISSION ACCOMPLISHED -
After all enemy are dead on island you'll get Return To Ship orders.
Return to ship for next mission.  However you can return to ship at
any time to get a new load of weapons.

LANDING -
This took awhile to figure out - and this is the primary reason I decided
to type up this doc!  Always land the same direction ya take off - against
the wind.  You'll notice the 4 loops at the Aft end of the ship.  These are
the Aircraft Aresting Cables.  Ya got four chances to catch one.  Get your
aircraft positioned just above deck level on approach and as ya pass over
the decks edge PUSH Straight UP on the joystick.  As the back wheel touches
it'll grab the cable and stop ya.  Depending on how high you were when ya
drop ya can - with the 3rd or 4th cable end up right over the Elevator.
When ya stop, taxi to the elevator and PRESS Fire.  You'll then be given
the next mission and/or new armorment.

To Take Off From Carrier -- Hold Stick Left Or Right, then at end of ship
angle to the upper left or right. (landing gear will go in at a certain
speed by itself)

To Fire Machine Guns -- Hold Down Fire Button
To Fire Rockets,Bombs,Torpedo -- Push Fire Button Rapidly

Other Things to know -- Use Rockets to Destroy Anti-AirCraft Bunkers.
  Some ships will need more than 1 torpedo to sink it (Battleships &
Aircraft Carriers).

Proper Use of Torpedo -- Fly Level about an inch above the water (not a real
inch, just what you see on the screen). Look at the small window at the
bottom of the screen. When you ythink you are close enough, relaese the
torpedo!  BUT if you are too high or not level, it will explode. If you
release it too soon, it will run out of fuel, or if you release it too late,
you'll crash into the ship!!.

Sometimes Torpedo planes will attck YOUR ship, And a little red arrrow in
the screen at the bottom will appear. If this happens, you have two options,
SHOOT IT DOWN, or you can shoot the torpedo AFTER its in the water( I prefer
the first method myself)

End.
