                              Tricky
                            __________

Tricky is a Freeware - game. You may copy it and give it to anybody you
like, but this text has to be on the disk.
If you want to distribute this game for commercial use, you must have my
(the authors) Permission and a Version including the name of your
PD-Series.
Files belonging to the game: Tricky, the editor, TS, ZS, TS1, TS2.

The Copyright is reserved by the Author:

                           Peter Händel
                           Biskmarckstr. 7a
                           4800 Bielefeld 1
                           West Germany
                           Tel. 0521 / 122352

I did not release this game as Shareware but i won't return any donations to
the sender. I will be very grateful for hints and ideas, my postman has not
enough to do anyway.

                         About the Game
                      -------------------
The goal of the game Tricky is to remove all stones of one level with a
ball. Only three Stones may be left in order to reach the next level.

After loading the game the title-page will appear. You can reach the first menu
by pressing the left mousebutton. In this menu you can choose between a new
or previously saved games.
If you move the mousepointer to the Button 'New' a requester appears and
you can choose your name.
After pressing 'OK' the game will start with the first Level.
If you want to load an old game, you have to click on 'OLD'.
In order to start an old game you have to double - click the number at
the left of of the display.

You can choose one of the following options while playing:

NEW:
   The actual game will be stopped and restarted.
Quit:
   The game will be ended and the Highscore will be written to the Disk
   (if the Disk is write - enabled)
SAVE & PAUSE:
   The game will be interupted and you have three Options to choose
   1. You can return to the game by choosing 'BACK'
   2. 'QUIT' will end the game.
   3. You can save the actual game by choosing 'SAVE'
   The game will only be saved if the Disk is write-enabled and if you have
   already finished the first level.
NEW LEVEL:
   The actual level will be restarted and the number of jokers will be
   decreased by one.
JOKER:
   If you played wrong you can get a joker (if there are any).


The Rules of the Game:

The display at the upper right corner (Stone) shows which Stones can
be removed by the ball. If there is a questionmark visible (Joker), you
can choose any stone. At the beginning of every level there is always a 
joker shown in the upper right corner. 
The arrows in the game can be turned clockwise with the mouse (left
mousebutton). You can direct the ball with the arrows, but the
number of turns is limited (Watch the Turn-display ).
You can start the ball by double clicking on one of the squares in the top
line and there is no way to influence the ball while it is running.
So you have to choose the first stone you want to remove by choosing the
right position in the first line. If the ball hits a row of five stones
with the 'Disk' symbol, all these stones will be removed and the next stone
you have to hit is one showing a Disk.
If there is a 'Mouse' behind this five Disks, the mouse will be replaced
by a Disk symbol (the last stone you removed) and the next stone you have
to remove is one showing the mouse.
The ball will roll until it hits a wall or the limits of the display.
The next removable stone is shown in the upper right corner.
The ball can only touch 9 of the arrows until it will jump to its starting
position.
If you run out of time, the level must be replayed and the number of jokers
is decreased. If you run out of time and there is no joker left, the game
is finished.
If you want to reset the highscore or delete the previous games, you can
delete the file named 'Trickyhigh' or 'Trickyold'.


                      About the Editor :
                   -----------------------

With the Editor you can design you own levels or change existing ones.

These are the Options of the Editor:
1. You can load a level by choosing 'LOAD'.
2. You can save a level by choosing 'SAVE'.
3. To leave the Editor click on 'QUIT'.
4. All stones can be removed with 'Clear'.
5. You can change the colors of the background, the stones and the ball
with 'Color'.

Besides this options you can adjust the time for every level and the number
of possible turns of the arrows.

How to create a new level:
First choose the number of the Level (arrow down : +,  arrow up : -).
Choose a background (at the right hand) and a color (COLOR).
Choose a stone you want to set and place it as often as you like.
There will be a border and the choosen stone will flash to show you the
current one.
If you want to clear some stones you have to click at the flashing one.
After designing your level you can adjust the time and save it.
The color of the background will change while saving or loading:
green means OK, red means: writing/loading failed (Disk writeprotected).

