


              * * * * STUN CHASEY DOCUMENT FILE * * * *

   (C) Garth Denley 1994

   This file is included with  the  demo  and  full  version  of  Stun  
Chasey.  This  file MUST be included with the Stun Chasey demo program 
if the demo is distributed. For information on distribution, refer  to  
the  STUN  CHASEY  DEMO VERSION section below. The full version of the 
game MAY NOT be distributed.
   If you have a legal copy of the full version of this game, there is  
no  need to read this file. Everything is explained in the manual that 
you received with the game. This file is only  of  interest  to  those  
with the demo version of Stun Chasey, or those with an illegal copy of 
the full game who wish to make amends.

             * * * * THE STUN CHASEY DEMO VERSION * * * *

   The Stun Chasey demo version may be  distributed  freely,  PROVIDED  
THAT the following restrictions are followed.
   > The demo is distributed complete, that is, it is not modified  in  
ANY  WAY, and all of the relevant files (Stun Chasey Demo, Stun Chasey 
Demo Docs, Stun Chasey Demo.info, and Stun Chasey Demo Docs.info)  are  
copied together.
   > No money, apart from a nominal media fee  may  change  hands  for  
these files.
   > The transfer of these files is not conditional, that is,  it  may  
not  be offered on the proviso that another purchase or transaction is 
made.
   Again, the full version of the game MAY  NOT  be  distributed.  The  
above aplies only to the demo version.

   If you follow these restrictions, you may make as  many  copies  of  
the  DEMO  VERSION as you wish, to give to as many people as you wish. 
In fact, I encourage you to do so, as a greater number of people  will  
be able to try the demo.

           * * * * THE FULL VERSION OF STUN CHASEY * * * *

   If you would like a copy of the full version of Stun  Chasey,  send  
$10 plus return postage (enough postage to cover the posting of a disk 
and a 13 or so page A4 sized manual). The return postage can either be  
extra money, reply paid coupons, or whatever. It doesn't matter if you 
fall a little short when you send postage, I'll make up the difference  
(provided  that  the  amount you send is almost right: if you fall too 
far short then you shouldn't expect a reply!). You will need  to  send  
the money to me on the following address:

                             GARTH DENLEY
                            16 SOUTH TCE.
                            PLYMPTON PARK
                               SA 5038

   This is an Australian address, so you may have to  write  a  little  
more on the envelope if you live overseas.
   Please don't send cash, because I won't be responsible if it  fails  
to  reach  me! Send a cheque or postal note instead. Cheques should be 
made out to Garth Denley. If you would like to  find  out  more  about  
Stun  Chasey, you can write to me on the above address. If you enclose 
return postage as detailed above, I'll send a reply! If want to  write  
a  letter  to me when you send the money for the full game, feel free, 
and I'll send a reply with the game.
   Just remember: make sure the address on the letter is correct!  Oh,  
and  remember  to  say  that  you want a copy of STUN CHASEY, or I may 
accidentally send you the wrong thing.
   The full version of Stun Chasey requires 1MB to run.

     * * * * BRIEF RULES FOR THE STUN CHASEY DEMO VERSION * * * *

   The Stun Chasey demo version is designed to work with 1MB  or  more  
memory.  If  you  have  managed  to get it to work on 1/2 MB, then the 
display on the title screen and during the pause mode may be corrupted  
if you are unlucky. The full version requires 1MB to run, so this demo 
may still be of little use if you only have 1/2 MB.
   The first screen that you will be  confronted  with  after  loading  
Stun  Chasey  will be the title screen. From this screen, press either 
1, 2, or 3. This will select a power from the three  powers  available  
on the demo version. The powers, SWITCH, BLOCK MOVE, and BARRIER WALL, 
are explained later.
   In the demo version, you control 1 of 20 characters. Yours  is  the  
cyan (greeny-blue) coloured creature with the odd sunglasses. When you 
begin, and arrow will point this character out to you. You must use  a  
joystick connected to the non-mouse port in the demo version, but have 
a choice in the full version. The object of the game is to be the last  
character  left  after all of the others have dropped out. However, in 
the demo, the game will stop when there are three characters left.
   At the start of the game, one character is chosen at random  to  be  
'It'. This character will be flashing. The aim of this character is to 
catch another  character  before  time  runs  out.  The  time  that  a  
character  has  left  is  shown  by the rainbow bar at the base of the 
screen. When this reaches the top, the character will  turn  into  the  
skeleton, and they are out of the game!
   If one character catches another, one of three things  can  happen.  
Either  the  caught  character becomes 'It', is teleported away, or is 
turned into a rock. The rainbow bar then begins again at the start and  
the game continues.
   Because the other characters are quite good at the  game,  you  are  
allowed  to  choose  a power to assist you. In the demo version of the 
game, you have a choice of 3 different powers. In the full  game,  you  
have a choice of 56 different powers.
   The basic descriptions of the 3 powers  available  to  you  are  as  
follows:

   Switch:  When  you  press  the  fire  button,  your  character   is   
automatically swapped with another character.
   Block Move: If you hold down  the  fire  button  and  push  in  the  
direction  of a rock, you may grab it. Whilst holding the button down, 
push in another direction and the rock will be moved there.
   Barrier Wall: Press the fire button and for a short time a wall  of  
rocks will be created between you and whoever is 'It'.

   At the base of the game screen are 20 boxes. The leftmost box shows  
whether  your power has recharged yet. If it is completely yellow, you 
may use your power. If not, then you can't. Block move doesn't require  
recharging,  so  don't  worry about checking if it has charged or not. 
Recharging is automatic, and occurs after a set time.

   Have fun! Enjoy the game! And buy the full version!


