Warning!!!

 This game is considered offensive by liberals, socialist, 
feminist, and others that are attempting to destroy the freedom 
and rights of all individuals in this country.

 The game is designed to show the absurdity of New Wave religion, 
the environmental movement, animal rights and political 
correctness, by it's use of absurity.

 If you are a feminist, liberal, Thomas D. Wallace or his sons, 
or a minor, do yourself a favor and QUIT now! Don't blame me if 
you are offended because this game points out the absurdity of 
your cause.

 You have been warned! If you can't accept the responsibility if 
you are offended by playing this game, DON'T PLAY IT!

 The game contains printed text that describes violence and, or 
deviant sexual behavior. Therefore, it is not intended for use by 
minors.

 All printed text is based upon several years collection from 
newspapers, radio talk shows, network news reports, books such as 
"Save the Animals", by Ingrid Newkirk, "Beyond Beef", by Jerimy 
Rifkins, "Earth in the Balance", by Al Gore, "Environmental 
Overkill", By Dixy Lee Ray, and "See I Told You So", by Rush 
Limbaugh, and other sources.

 None of it is made up. Those (offensive) things described in the 
game's computer PC information database have actually happened.

 Text used for the Tannoy and displayed messages contain actual 
quotes from environmentalist, animal rights activist, or other 
politically correct individuals. Credit is given where 
applicable.

 The game as supplied will run from the CD-ROM or hard drive 

 If you run this game from disks, make sure that you use the 
correct disk name for the following; Put the directory TXTData1 
in a disk named Text. Put the program, the directory Text, and 
the directory Screens in a disk named Program. Put the directory 
Sounds in a disk named Sounds. The game will detect if it has 
been started from a disk or hard drive. Note, the game will ask 
for the next level when you find the exit.

 Future levels to be supplied at a later date.The game will then 
prompt you for the disk needed.

 If you obtain this program in lzh form, put the contents of 
program.lzh in a disk named Program. Put the contents of text.lzh 
in a disk named Text. Put the contents of sounds.lzh in a disk 
named Sounds. To run from a hard drive, just put everything into 
a directory named PanicSociety.

 Additionally, you will need the following support files in your 
SYS disk, Narrator.Device, speak-handler, and translator.Library. 
Those files can be found on a 1.3 or 2.04 system disk.

 The Panic Society game is compiled using AMOSPro.



The Game;



 Level 1, Learn all you can about the Panic Society, and figure 
out how to get out your super safe prison.

 This level uses both mouse and text interface. Activate text 
command by clicking the mouse pointer in the text window, then 
type in the action desired.

 This level features an open ended text reader. That is, a single 
subroutene can read and display ascii text directly from disk and 
detects the proper file size as it loads the data. A split screen 
allows for lores graphics and normal 80 column text.

 The program feature key word search for the text command action 
desired. That is, the command, "look room" and, "I want to look 
at what is in this room," will give the same results.



Future levels in the works;



 Level 2, It will allow you to explore outdoors with the goal of 
reaching the Fortress and finding your way inside.



 Level 3, Explore inside the forteress to find and destroy master 
control. (If you have played with my "Maze Test" on FF CD- Rom 
January 95, this is the test program for level 3).



Level 4 (planned) You must now free the survivors and rebuild 
civilization.



 Panic Society was programmed as a project to learn how to use 
AMOSPro and to spread the message about the threat of the liberal 
movement on personal freedom.

 The game should work on any Amiga computer system with at least 
1 meg of ram.



Program history

Version ??

 Originally an all text adventure with graphics. Added the 
ability to use both mouse and text entries. Added the NAG 
function when role playing various ethanic and gender groups.

Version 1.0

 Original submission 3,31,95. Added sound, split screen displays,  
Wallace can't play, give unfair advantage for a womyn or minority 
role player, and crash game if an A.A. "accidently" types in a 
certain "racist" slur.

Version 1.1

 Fixed several minor bugs. Fixed a display bug in graphics on the 
PCTV. Fixed bug in stun gun, Most logical method is now used to 
disable robocop. More friendly text entry, accepts full sentence. 
Text entry searched for the seven dirty words and punishes you 
accordingly. Fixed some bugs in text responses. Large range of 
text entrys have a logical response or suggest use of alternate 
methods to acheve your objective.

 Enjoy. AH

