CHAOS
-----
You can play with anything from 2 to 8 wizards.
Each player can be controlled by the computer or by a human.
Enter the name for each wizard. Leaving the name blank will name them 'Wizard 4' or whatever.
The dificulty rating is the computer intelligence rating from 1 to 9.
The lower the value, the weaker the opponents.
The higher the value, the more intelligent they are also.
The game is divided into turns.
At the start of each turn, each wizard must choose a spell to cast.
After everyone has chosen, the game moves onto the board.
First is the spell casting phase. Each wizard takes turn to cast their selected spells.
Next is the movement phase, where each wizard takes it in turns to move themselves and any monsters under their control.

Spells
------
The first thing to understand is the CHAOS/LAW rating.
Any spell may be rated CHAOS, LAW or NEUTRAL.
Everytime you cast a CHAOS spell, you become more 'CHAOSY' and the same for LAW spells. NEUTRAL's have no effect.
On top of this, the more CHAOSY you are, the easier it is for you to cast a CHAOS spell.
Examining a spell (right mouse button) allows you to see the chance you have of the spell succeeding.
For example. If you are rated LAW 6, then you have less chance of casting a spell rated CHAOS 2 than someone who is rated LAW 1 or CHAOS 1 or NEUTRAL.
To get around this problem, you may cast monster spells as 'illusions'. This means that their is 100% chance of it working.
The monsters behave as any real monster would and can still kill other wizards. There is no way of knowing what is an illusion.
The disadvantage of illusions is that any other wizard can cast 'Disbelieve' on it and destroy it.
Of course, it is always a risk casting disbelieve, as if the monster is real, it will have no effect.
Some spells spread, e.g. Fire or Gooey Blob.
Oh just experiment with them, for gods sake.

Special Spells
--------------
Magic Wood : Enter it and after a while you are given a new spell.
Shadow Forest : Can attack enemys.
Curse : Destroys all Wizards Monsters.

Movement
--------
To move, just click on anything you own. (Press the function keys to see who owns what).
To attack, just move into an enemy.
Wizards can ride on mounts.
Some creatures can fly, some can move several spaces.
blah blah blah.
That should be enough to get you going.
Messing on with it is part of the fun.
