
                              SHOOTIST
                             __________
                               ©1998
                         ROBERT W. BENJAMIN
                        --------------------
                 http://www.sosbbs.com/~rwbenjamin


SHOOTIST is an action game where you use the nouse to move a crosshair
around the screen, shooting at baddies while trying not to shoot the
innocent people.
You have a choice of 3 different skill levels: SLOW, NORMAL, HARD.
The harder the level, the faster the enemies will move and fire at you,
while you try to shoot them.
When you begin, you will be given a set amount of HEALTH, AMMO and
ENEMIES (see amounts displayed at the bottom of the game screen). If you
destroy all of the enemies you will move onto the next level or stage.

Your HEALTH decreases by 10 everytime you are shot by an enemy. At the
beginning of each new level or stage, you regain some HEALTH and AMMO.
If you run out of HEALTH you die...
If you accidently shoot an innocent victim, the amount of ENEMIES to
kill will decrease, but so will your HEALTH, so don't shoot any
innocent people.

While the action is intense at times, you must keep an eye on the 
amount of AMMO left. As a rule you should never let your ammo fall under
3, if it runs out, you are doomed to die.
At various times during each regular level, a rat will run accross the
bottom of the screen, shooting the rat will cause an ammo belt to soon
fall down the screen. Shoot the ammo belt to regain some ammo.
You need 1 bullet to shoot the rat and 1 more to shoot the ammo belt, so
remember to keep your AMMO at least above 2.

There are 3 regular levels and a stage-level for each regular level.
Here they are, and the targets to shoot and avoid:
 LEVEL 1: THE WILD WEST: Shoot the people who are not wearing badges.
                 The people wearing badges are the sheriff's don't shoot
                 them.
 LEVEL 1-STAGE 2: Shoot whatever the program will tell you to
                 shoot. Your gun won't even fire if it's not on the 
                 target. Touching any other creature, etc.. will harm you.
 LEVEL 2: GANG HIDEOUT: Shoot the people wearing sun glasses,
                 they are bad gang members, who have been hurting the
                 good people, if they got shades blast them....
 LEVEL 2-STAGE 2: Shoot whatever the program will tell you to
                 shoot. Your gun won't even fire if it's not on the
                 target. Touching any other creature, etc.. will harm you.
 LEVEL 3: MONSTER MANSION: Shoot the monsters, they can be recognized
                 by their white eyes and ghoulish teeth.
 LEVEL 3-STAGE 2: Shoot whatever the program will tell you to
                 shoot. Your gun won't even fire if it's not on the 
                 target. Touching any other creature, etc.. will harm you.

Pressing 'Esc' during play, will quit the game.

[Made with AMOS THE CREATOR... no extensions, etc. AMIGA 1200-14 MHZ]

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
        This is a shareware/demo version of the game 'SHOOTIST' it
        will end at the beginning of LEVEL 2: GANG HIDEOUT. To order
        the full version, send $5.00 Cash/Check/Money Order [USA
        FUNDS ONLY!!] Checks/Money Orders Must Be Made Payable to:
        ROBERT W. BENJAMIN

        Mail to: ROBERT W. BENJAMIN
                 RR2  BOX 131B
                 WYSOX  PA  18854

        Request: SHOOTIST, and enclose your E-Mail address plainly
        written, as soon as I receive your order, I will E-Mail
        you the full version.
                             
                     [http://www.sosbbs.com/~rwbenjamin]
         

