
                            Amiga Smart Port TM
                         Hardware Technical Notes
                              December 2, 1993

The information contained in this file is intended to correct items omitted
or changed since the instruction manual was published.

MOUSE MODE SWITCH
The mouse mode switch is provided to allow the mouse to work at the same
time as a rudder pedal or analog throttle device.  To accomplish this, the
mouse mode switch "borrows" the line used by the middle mouse button on
MOUSE PORT 1.  Unless you have a three button mouse, it is recommended that
you leave the mouse mode switch in the "special" mode.  That is, switched
towards the cable connectors.  The only time that the switch should be moved
to the normal mode is when using a three button mouse or three button track
ball.

SmartPortCal UTILITY PROGRAM
The SmartPortCal Utility Program, Version 1.0, supplied with Amiga Smart
Port, has been linked to unusual behavior in several games.  Upon exiting
the program, SmartPortCal places the Amiga in the Commodore
recommended mode.  Apparently, this mode is not expected by some game
software.  If you use the SmartPortCal program, you should reboot your
system before playing any games.  The SmartPortCal program should be
used to adjust the analog joystick and rudder pedal settings during the initial
installation. It is not necessary to calibrate the Smart Port again unless you
change equipment, tamper with the analog settings, or move the Smart Port
to another Amiga.

BEETLE MOUSE and the AMIGA 500
When using the Amiga Smart Port with an Amiga 500, a Beetle Mouse
cannot be used. The Beetle Mouse by itself draws most of the current
produced by the 500.   When the Beetle mouse is used with the Smart Port,
the current draw is too high.  However, the Beetle mouse can be used in
conjunction with the Amiga Smart Port on any other type of Amiga.  There
has been no reports of incompatibility with any other mouse.


FIGHTER DUEL PRO AND PRO 2 RUDDER PEDAL SETUP
The list below gives a step-by-step guide to set up rudder pedals,  an analog
stick, and a system mouse (using the Game Port Adapter or Rudder Pedal
Adapter) to work with the amazing Fighter Duel Pro Flight Simulator.

   1.      Make sure the equipment is connected as shown in the iff picture
           "PC Pedals AirCraft Setup" (Preferred) or  the picture "PC PEDALS
           Configuration". Both of these pictures are found in the directory
           "Connection Diagrams".
     NOTE: If you are using the IDD PC Pedals TM, make sure the PC
     Pedals joystick switch 1 is in the normal mode and switch 2 is in the
     reversed mode on the left side panel. The Game Port Adapter is not
     necessary when using the PC Pedals.  Skip to step 3.

   2.      If you are using the Game Port Adapter, make sure that the
           switch for joystick 1 is in the normal mode and the joystick 2
           switch is in the reversed mode. Also make sure the trigger switch
           is in the "OFF" position.  If using the Rudder Pedal Adapter,
           simply plug in the adapter as shown.  An adapter is necessary to
           switch the X and Y analog lines around so that the rudder pedals
           can make use of the free middle mouse button line.

   3.      Place the mouse mode switch in the "special" mode.  This is
           done by moving the switch towards the cable connectors.

   4.      Make sure the mouse is activated by pressing the left mouse
           button.  Make sure the "PC2" indicator light is off.

   5.      Activate the analog joystick by pressing the fire button.  The "PC1"
           indicator light should be on.

   6.      Start the Fighter Duel Pro software and don't forget to select the
           rudder pedal option off of the menu.

GAME COMPATIBILITY
The Amiga Smart Port is compatible with all Amiga software currently
supporting the analog joystick(s); that is those using the reversed IBM X/Y
axis configuration.

NOTE: See the file "Game Charts" for a synopsis of compatible
      games and available upgrades.


IDD ANALOG Upgrades
InterACTIVE Digital Devices is now developing several analog upgrades to
enhance the playability of some games when used with the Amiga Smart Port.
As upgrades are completed, they will be placed on the IDD Bulletin Board
System at (318) 365-2667 or you may call IDD to get the latest Upgrade set
available shipped to you. These Upgrades are available to all Amiga Smart Port
owners!

NOTE: Any upgrade diskettes purchased from IDD will include FREE keyboard
      reference cards.  These are sturdy cards which show all new key
      assignments.  A perfect complement to the reference cards included
      with the games.


The latest upgrade set will contain all of the upgrades found on earlier
releases. Upgrade diskettes can be purchased directly from IDD by sending a
check or money order for $6.00 to cover the cost of the diskette and shipping.
(If ordering from USA) International orders please consult the shipping info
chart in the PC Pedals Info Drawer. If you call our BBS, there is no charge for
downloading any upgrades.
All upgrade programs are copyright of InterACTIVE Digital Devices. The user is
free to make copies for archival purposes only. Alterations of these upgrades
is strictly forbidden.


ANALOG Upgrade SET 2.3
The following upgrades can be found on the Analog Upgrade 2.3 Diskette:

  UPGRADE NAME                                  DESCRIPTION
---------------------       -------------------------------------------------
FS2 Upgrade               Flight Simulator II Upgrade for Amigas
FS2 Upgrade A500          Special Flight Simulator II Upgrade for the Amiga 500

KOTS Upgrade              Knights of the Sky Upgrade for Amigas

F15 II Upgrade            F15 Strike Eagle II Upgrade for Amigas

GunShip 2000 Upgrade      GunShip 2000 Upgrade for Amigas

BOP Upgrade               Birds of Prey Upgrade for Amigas

FA-18 Upgrade             FA-18 Interceptor Upgrade for Amigas


                              INSTALLATION
Please read the documentation files included with each Upgrade Disk. You will
find detailed installation and operating instructions.

Knights of the Sky, F15 Strike Eagle II, GunShip 2000 are copyright of
MicroProse.
Flight Simulator II is copyright of subLOGIC Corporation.
Birds of Prey,FA-18 Interceptor are copyright of Electronic Arts
All Updates are copyright of InterACTIVE Digital Devices.  All rights
reserved.
