Those sources are for use with JOTD Startup program (JST)
To compile them, you'll need the JST includes (in /JOTDSTARTUP/includes/jst)

This directory contains the sources to create some of my HD installers.
You should try to compile them and copy some parts to create your own yours.

I coded lots of other loaders, which sources are not included. They're available
on simple request (e-mail me: jffabre@club-internet.fr)

Qwak: a one disked game, dostrack, Rob Northen read routine, extension memory.
       Rating: Easy

Chuck Rock: dostrack game, 2 disks (diskchange), copylock protections (3), and
      loaders to patch to hd (3).
      Rating: Medium

Backlash: a one disked game, nondos sectors a, shitty disk ripper, trainer.
          Rating: Easy, except for the disk ripper

Walker, Puggsy: multidisk filed games, but custom file read. Annoying memory extension.
                Walker fixed to work with caches. Patched RNC decrunch in fastmem.
                Rating: Medium

Leander, Beast3: special sectors and Psygnosis filesystem.
                 Extension mem (removed address rounding on Beast3), for Leander
                 high score saves.
                 Rating: Medium/Hard

Blastar: 3 disked Rob Northen dostracks, extension memory, some small fixes.
         Quite easy, auto diskchanges by diskunits.
         Rating: Easy/Medium

X-Out: blitter waits everywhere, changing at every level, diskchange,
       nondos track format (system friendly read routine).
       Rating: Tough

Prince Of Persia: nondos track format (shitty ripper), some patches to avoid exceptions,
       game load/save. 2 versions supported.
       Rating: Medium

James Pond 3 CD32: CD32 game. Files but custom CD read. No audio tracks. Joypad fixed in
       joystick+keys, NV ram saves converted to RAM->disk saves, levelskip.
       Rating: Tough

James Pond: normal dostrack disk. No files. Strange read routine (looses 512 bytes/sector),
       probably DOS adaptation of a weird disk format, lots of blitter patches.
       Rating: Easy/Medium

Super Wonderboy: normal dostrack disk. No files. Easy copylock protection. Dynamic trainer
       Rating: Easy (took 30min. to code)


Lotus Turbo Challenge: 1 grem2file rippable disk. Weird blitter routines (using copper interrupt)
	that had to be fixed. Cannot use A5 because of use/modify in the interrups
	(which explains JSRGEN_FREEZE) Iconify/snapshot feature. 3 versions supported.
	Keyboard had to be fixed in the oldest version (and disk protection too)
	Rating: Toughest
	
Menace: 1 custom track disk. Blitter errors, disk protection removed (I used the Maverick crack
	which explains the zero page addresses), A5 cannot be used because it's global to
	code + interrupts (took me a while to realize that). Iconify/snapshot feature.
	Two versions supported.
	Access faults to ROM removed (was used to generate random stars)
 	Hiscore saves on HD.

	Rating: Medium/Hard

Street Racer (AGA): DOS files (from the CD). Removed compulsory PAL. Relocated decrunch routines
	for better speed. Iconify/snapshot option (notice the fmode poke).
	Rating: Medium

Immortal: DOS disks (disk2file reads them). Fixed CPU dependent delays, Rob Northen like routine
	but different after track 40 (took me a while to find out). Manual protection removed
	(used Lockpick to see the diffs). Iconify/snapshot option.
	Rating: Medium/Hard

Katakis: DOS disk (disk2file reads it). Fixed odd address exception trap (did not work on 68020+)
	trackdisk load followed by custom trackload
	Hiscore saves, relocated decrunch routine for better speed.
	Find the game for FREE at www.factor5.com in the dowload section
	Rating: Easy

Son Of Stag 2-6: Dos disk, X Rated demo. Uses Harry OS Emulation routine. Quite simple
        since Harry did all the hard work :)
	Rating: Easy if you use OSEmu

Sensible Soccer CD32: CD-ROM, Uses Harry OS Emulation routine, gets the user flags to
        see if the NTSC tooltype is set. 2 versions supported (the executable names
        change from one version to another, and in the v2, there are 2 executables)
	Rating: Easy

Arcade Pool: Rob Northern format (rob2file), DOS tracks 0-2, load/save prefs/scores
	Uses OSEmu (lots of system calls), fast memory with v1.4 of OSEmu
	Rating: Medium if you consider OSEmu is done :)

Frenetic: Old loader, originally for a cracked version, but re-worked by Codetapper
          and now supports 2 versions. 1 diskchange.

JSTExeHD: different executable/source files allowing you to perform a LoadSeg() of
        a file using OSEmu, with different chipmem/fastmem configurations
        Executable program name must be passed in USERDATA tooltype

If you've got problems or things you don't understand, DON'T HESITATE to e-mail me.

Good luck,

Jff
