                          BUTCHER 2

TYPED IN BY ???. EDITED BY PARASITE.


Project Menu
------------
Ask Mode:
     320 x 200     1 - 5 bit-planes
     320 x 400     1 - 5 bit-planes interlaced
     640 x 200     1 - 4 bit-planes
     640 x 400     1 - 4 bit-planes
     320 x 200     Hold and Modify  (6 bit-planes)

Tools Menu
----------
Undo:
     You can reverse many of the commands in this program by
     selecting UNDO

Draw:
     A few primitive drawing tools are included in a small
     window which you can move around the screen. Upon
     selection of one of the five commands, (Filled Box,
     Hollow Box, Lines, Draw, Fill) the window will disappear
     and you can draw with the selected tool using the current
     color. To recall the draw window, press the right mouse
     button. The last thing which you did can be cancelled
     by pressing the UNDO button.

     On choosing "Pick" the window will also disappear and all
     pixels of the current color will flash in red. To stop
     the flashing, press the left mouse button. You can flash
     any of the colors by positioning the crosshairs over a
     pixel of the desired color and again pressing the left
     mouse button. You can continue to do this until you
     press the right button. The window will return and the
     current color will be the last flashing color. This
     command is used in several places in the program.

Reverse and Flip:
     "Reverse" will reverse the screen horizontally. "Flip"
     turns the screen upside down.

Palettes:
     You can maintain three different palettes at all times.
     These palettes are switchable from the menu. When you
     load a picture, the picture's colormap is always loaded
     into Palette One. Should you wish to apply another
     palette  to a picture, you should first copy that palette
     into Palettes Two or Three before loading the picture.
     Sorting by intensity is particularly effective if used
     with the "Spread" command. By spreading a range of
     colors between two shades of the same hue you can produce
     a shaded picture. Also, by exchanging the colors at the
     light and dark ends and spreading between the ends, you
     can create a negative.

     The "Copy" and "Ex" (Exchange) commands work as they do
     in most palettes. With "Copy" you can not only copy colors
     to other positions, but you can also copy the current
     palette to another palette by pressing one of the Palette
     Selection Buttons after invoking the copy. The "Pick"
     command that is also found in other parts of the program
     flashes the current color in red. You can stop the
     flashing by pressing the left mouse button. You can
     select a new current color by positioning the crosshairs
     over a pixel and again pressing the left mouse button.
     This process can be repeated until the right mouse button
     is pressed. The last flashing color is then the current
     color.

     The "Map" command will map one palette to another palette.
     Butcher will rearrange the colors of the second palette
     to match more colsely the colors of the first palette.
     Sometimes this match will be very good depending on the
     closeness of colors in the two palettes. The mapping is
     less effective if the palettes are not very close.

Process Menu
------------
Edge:
     The edging process of Butcher if based on a nonlinear
     function which decides whethter any particular pixel is
     part of an edge by examining its neighboring pixels. If
     the computed variance between the tested pixel and its
     neighbors is greater than an adjustable threshold,
     Butcher writes that position as part of an edge.

     You set the threshold with the proportional gadget
     at the top of the window. A threshold of zero will result
     in edges at all points where a pixel differs with one of
     its neighbors. If this gadget is tuned to its maximum
     value, edges will be found only where pure black
     (R = G = B = 0) is found next to pure white (R = G = B = 15)
     Note that Butcher only notices differences in intensity,
     not in color. If two very different colors have R + G + B
     values which are similar, then it less likely that an
     edge will be found. Finding edges by intensity is
     satisfactory in most cases.

     The pen gadgets determine the color of the contour
     lines. "Light" will map the brightest color from the
     palette on a background of the darkest color. "Dark" will
     reverse the foreground and background colors.

     If "Color" is selected, the pen color will relate to
     the actual pen color of a tested pixel. If the
     proportional gadget at the bottom of the window is tuned to
     zero (completely to the left), the pen color is the actual
     color of the pixel. Increasing the value of "Darkness"
     will cause the program to choose darker and darker colors
     from the existing palette. If possible, it will choose
     colors with related hues.

     "Enhance" applies the edges to the pcture itself. If
     the pen color is light, white lines will be traced around
     the contours of the picture. If the pen color is dark,
     black lines will be written on the edges. If "Color" is
     selected, different colors from the palette will be used
     on the picture.

     "Map" draws the edges on a blank background. If "Color"
     is active, colors are drawn on a blank background. The
     background will be as dark as possible. Mapping on a
     dark background with different colors often produces
     eerie effects.

     You can stop mapping a picture at any time by pressing
     "Stop". "View" closes the Edge Window until you press the
     right mouse button. "Restore" returns the original picture
     to the screen. "Keep" closes the Edge Window and keeps
     whatever picture is currently displayed. "Cancel" closes
     the window and returns the original picture to the screen.

Filter:
     The filter removes isolated pixels or isolated groups
     of pixels from the picture. Level 1 will remove pixels
     which do not have neighboring pixels of the same color.
     Levels 2 through 4 will attempt to remove larger groups of
     pixels of the selected color. Isolated pixels chosen for
     removal will be replaced with a neighboring color. Butcher
     filters pictures by testing each set of pixels with
     templates of all other colors. You can stop this process
     at any time by pressing "Stop".

     You can clip the part of the screen you wish to filter
     with the "Clip" command. You can pull a rectangle on the
     screen which will define the section which will be
     filtered. If you frame a section which is not exactly
     right, you can continue to pull rectangles until you
     press the right mouse button. You can remove the clip by
     pressing the "Clip" button a second time.

     You can select the filtered color by pressing one of
     the color squares at the bottom of the window. Also, you
     can choose a color by selecting "Pick" and pressing the
     left mouse button when the crosshairs are over a pixel of
     the desired color. The last color which flashes red is
     the current color.

     "Filter" works particularly well on contour maps or
     on pictures with only a few colors. Filter is less
     effective on areas with finely grained mixes of numerous
     colors.

Mosaic:
     Mosaic creates new pictures with blocks of colors. The
     color for each block is a sample from the original
     picture. You can adjust the pixel height of the blocks.
     Butcher adjusts the width depending on the pixel aspect
     ratio for the current display mode.

Slice Plane:
     You can selectively remove any bit-plane or combination of
     bit-planes from a picture. Each bit in a plane corresponds
     to one pixel postion. A one bit-plane picture can have
     only two colors because each bit in the plane is either on
     or off. A picture on the Amiga consists of one or more
     layers of these bit-planes. The binary number which is
     extracted from combining bits from each plane determines
     the color used to draw a specific pixel.

     With the slicer you can examine each plane or
     combination of bit-planes. With only one plane displayed
     you are essentially seeing the individual bits of memory
     in a single bit-plane. If the bits happen to map to dark
     colors you can brighten the palette by toggling the "False"
     button. This changes the palette to a series of gray levels.
     Press the "View" button if you wish to see the entire
     picture. You can return to the window by pressing the right
     mouse button.

     Sometimes you can manufacture interesting effects by
     removing planes from a picture. You can often find smooth
     silhouettes of the features in your pictures.

Density Slice:
     You can think of every palette as a series of
     intensities progressing from no intensity, or black, to
     maximum intensity, or pure white. Whith density slicing,
     you pick a point on this scale of intensities and assign
     one color to one side of the point and another color to
     the other side of the point. You can adjust this point
     with the sliding gadget. The colors will update as you
     move the gadget.

     If "Mono" (for monochrome) is selected, the point is
     adjusted with black to the left side and red to the right
     side of the scale all of the colors will shift to black.
     At either end of the scale the screen will turn all one
     color.

     If you lose the gadget, hitting the space bar will
     return the slicing point to the center. Pressing the 'R'
     key will restore the original palette. Also, you can move
     the slicing point left by pressing the '<' key and right
     by pressing the'>' key.

     You can slice the scale of intensities at more than
     one point with the two ma Bers. By pressing a ma Ber button
     you will place a numbered ma Ber at the current position of
     the sliding gadget. Butcher will use green to the right
     side of this ma Ber. With one ma Ber and the point above
     the sliding gadget you can slice the palette into three
     levels. With two ma Bers you can slice the palette into
     four levels. Yellow is the fourth color. If you cansider
     the areas between ma Bers, and between ma Bers and end
     points, as regions, you can adjust a slicing point within
     any one of these regions with the sliding gadget. The
     purpose of this scheme is to allow simple adjustment along
     the entire scale even while using multiple levels. This
     becomes important if you choose "View" and close the window
     Butcher will continue to adjust the slicing point by
     responding to the keyboard commands.

     If you choose "Color", the darker colors to the left
     side of the slicing point are replaced with black as you
     slide right. The original colors return as you slide the
     gadget to the left. In Color mode, the ma Bers are ignored.

     By pressing the "Reverse" button, you can invert and
     redisplay the colors. If the mode is "Color" and you have
     the dark colors of the palette on the right side of the
     scale, white will fill on the left side of the slicing
     point instead of black.
     If you choose "View" the utility window will disappear
     You can still use the keyboard commands. Pressing the
     right mouse button returns the window.

     Density slicing is useful for pictures with very low
     contrasts. By dividing regions of intensity into starkly
     different colors, you can highlight various features
     which are not very prominent in the original picture.
     Density slicing only operates on the palette. The program
     does not rewrite any pixels. It is helpful if you copy
     the original palette into one of the other palettes before
     you use density slicing. You can manipulate one of the
     palettes and then alternate the original palette with
     the transformed palette from the menu.

Convert Menu
------------
Histogram and Quick Merge:
     In "Histogram" the program counts the number of
     pixels drawn in each color of the palette. After it
     finishes the count, Butcher displays a bar chart describing
     the relative totals. You can sort the colors by number of
     pixels, exchange sets of pixels (not colors as in the
     palette), and merge all or portions of these sets into
     other colors. Butcher immediately rewrites the pixels
     and updates the graph.

     "Quick Merge" is a modified version of "Histogram".
     When "Histogram" first opens, it counts all of the pixels
     in the picture. This takes about ten seconds in low
     resolution. The counting can take much longer in higher
     resolutions. With "Quick Merge", the program samples the
     picture. You do not get the precise counts for each color,
     but you can get to the tools of "Histogram" a lot faster.

     The current color is selected at the bottom of the
     window by pressing one of the color gadgets. The RGB
     values are updated in the box to the right. These numbers
     are in hexadecimal so that '0' is the minimum value and
     'f' is the maximum value. For example, white is
     described as 'fff', bright red as 'f00', a medium gray
     might be '777', and black is '000'. You can also select a
     color by choosing "Pick". The window will disappear with
     the current color flashing in varying intensities of red.
     You can stop the flashing by pressing the left mouse
     button. By pressing the left mouse button over a pixel of
     another color you can select that color as the current
     color. You can return to "Histogram" by pressing the
     right mouse button. The last flashing color is now the
     current color.

     If you press the "Use" button, the pixel count for
     the current color is displayed in the window title bar. Its
     percentage of the total number of counted pixels is also
     displayed.

     With "Merge" you can merge all or a clipped section of
     the pixels of a single color into another color. In other
     words, the pixels of the current color are redrawn using
     the selected color. You can effectively reduce the number
     of colors in a picture by merging some colors into other
     closely related colors. This can free room for defining
     new colors in the palette or you can reduce the memory
     requirements and the file size of the picture by removing
     enough colors to eliminate a bit-plane.

     Sometimes, you can improve the appearance of the
     picture by merging some of the pixels. For example, a
     digitizer may have generated a blue sky with a mix of
     various shades of blue. The picture might look better if
     you merge most of the shades of blue into a single shade.
     The fine shadings of buildings or other features remain
     in the picture. By breaking the uniform texture of the
     picture, you can often improve its perceptual depth. You
     can do this with drawing programs but it can become
     tedious if you must draw around or through complicated
     features.

     You can clip a rectangle in which all merging
     operations will occur. When you choose "Clip" the window
     disappears, and you can pull rectangles on the screen by
     pushing and releasing the left mouse button. If you don't
     quite like the rectangle you have drawn, you can start over
     and Butcher will remove the preceding rectangle. The final
     rectangle is selected when you push the right mouse button.
     A clip can be removed by pushing the "Clip" button again.
     Clips only apply to the command of merging pixels.

     Butcher updates the pixel count after every merging
     or sorting operation. The update is almost instantaneous
     after merging the entire screen. Because the program has to
     count the pixels within a clip, clipped operations take
     more time to finish.

     "Blend" performs a full screen merge of pixels. In
     this case, the color into which you are merging may change.
     This change is determined by a proportional change. This
     change is determined by a proportional mix of the two
     colors based on their relative pixel counts. If the
     second color has many more pixels than the first color, no
     change will occur in the second color.

     "Exchange" rewrites the pixels of one color into the
     position of a second color. The pixels of the second color
     are placed in the original position of the first color.
     Since both of the colors are also exchanged, there is no
     change in the picture.

     "Sort" rewrites pixels until their counts are in
     descending order. The sort starts with the third color and
     proceeds to the last color in the palette. Color Numbers
     One and Two are unaffected. By sorting the colors you can
     place the least significant colors, in terms of their
     pixel counts, at the end of the palette. Sorting is the
     only operation which cannot be reversed with the "UNDO"
     command.

Auto Merge:
     You can define the maximum number of colors used in
     the palette. "Auto Merge" will merge, blend, and sort
     the colors until all of the palette positions beyond the
     maximum count are without pixels. You can redefine the
     empty color registers without changing the picture.

Auto Chop:
     "Auto Chop" uses "Auto Merge" to remove enough colors
     from the picture in order to reduce the number of bit-
     planes in the picture. After it completes merging,
     Butcher converts the pcture to a screen with the specified
     number of bit-planes. Suppose you currently have a five
     bit-plane picture. If you specify a depth of four planes,
     Butcher clears the pixels of 16 colors from the picture.
     The picture is changed into a four plane picture with a
     maximum of 16 colors.

Change Depth:
     You can change the number of bit-planes in the
     picture without regard for the information in the dis-
     carded bit-planes. This will usually result in severe and
     not entirely pleasant changes in your picture. If you
     increase the depth of a picture, clear bit-planes are
     added to the picture and the picture appears unchanged.
     Adding one plane will double the number of colors
     which you can use.

Lo-Res to HAM
     This command will convert a low resolution picture
     (320 x 200) of any depth to a Hold and Modify picture.

HAM to Lo-Res
     This converts a Hold and Modify picture to a low
     resolution picture. It can hen be used in most paint
     programs. Since Hold and Modify pictures can use all of
     the Amiga's 4,096 colors, the reduction to 32 colors in
     low resolution will almost always result in a picture of
     less quality than the original.

Slice Menu
----------
     The items in the slice menu represent similar operations.
     You can change pictures to different resolutions by expanding
     or reducing their width or height. The depth does not change
     unless you are converting a picture with a width of 320 pixels
     and a depth of five planes into a picture with a width of 640
     pixels. The fifth plane is discarded in the conversion.
     Before perfomring this command it is important that you
     clear out the last bit-plane with either "Auto Chop" or "Auto
     Merge".

     If you are converting a picture to a higher resolution
     it will not look any different after the conversion. Single
     pixels are split into two pixels, but the picture appears no
     different. This is not the case when you change a picture to
     a lower resolution. Every other pixel is lost in the conversion.
