                     COSMIC PIRATE

Typed in by Knight Watchman. Edited by Parasite.
  

INTRO
This doc file is basically everything that I've been able to
figure out by playing the game Cosmic Pirate. This is not typed
from the original docs.  You are a fururistic pirate (YEA!)
trying to make some money by rampaging and capturing other space
vehicles.

STARTING OUT
Ok, slap that disk into drive 0. The disk must have the write
protect off. Its a good idea to make a copy of the game and
update the copy every time you successfully complete a mission.
Turn on the Amiga and watch the great intro... Now, highlight
(use the "F" keys) the "Pirate" you want to use, or start your
own man by hitting F1 (continue).  Use the "RESTART" function to
get rid of the person you highlight and start him over.

BUILD YOUR CREDENTIALS
Now you see the main menu.
Take a look at your "Pirate Status".  You have no credits and are
a nobody!  Well, to remedy this you must play the "Simulators".
Hit the "F-Key" that selects the simulators.  Play all the
simulators that are free. This will increase your shooting
accuracy and Pirate Status.  REMEMBER: This is only a simulator!
The real game has excellent graphics, not this vector-stuff.
The Simulators that cost money are not needed, you will do all
those on your mission.  "Disasteroids" is a really cool 3-d
asteroids game that you can play after you get enough money to
waste on it.

THE MISSIONS
Ok, after you have gotten used to the way the game plays with the
simulators, its time to choose a mission.  Hit the F-key that
selects "SELECT MISSION".  Now you see the Missions menu.  The
missions are rated. Any mission starting with "A" is easy and
doesn't pay much.  "G" is the hardest and pays the most.
Highlight a "A" mission and "SELECT" it. Now you are ready to play.
EXIT that menu. You are now ready to LAUNCH.

WHAT TO DO ON THE MISSION
First, Launch.  Then here's what you have to do:
1. Shoot everything that moves.
2. Collect the "Coins" that appear after you shoot an enemy.
The coins can be shot, so try not to.  You need to collect the
coins to use as money.  After you have earned 1000 points (as
shown at the top of the screen marked "SCORE")  you can enter the
"Warp Machine".  Follow the little "X" that is on the screen to
find the warp machine. Now enter the warp.
3. After you enter the warp machine, you will see a graph.  You
are the flashing skull.  You can only move one space.  The fish
symbol represents the "Space Truck"- thats where you want to get
to.  You must capture the space truck (to complete the mission
and get your money!).  The round circle represents a Planet.  You
can go to this planet but its not necessary.  The other skull
represents other pirates.  I don't know what you're supposed to
do with them, so leave them alone.  Oh yeah, on the blue squares,
the toll you need for the warp machine is 1,000 points. The
Purple squares you need 3,000.  And other colors are other values
(sometimes).  Move to a space that will take you closer to the
Space Truck.
4. After you move to another coordinate you have to shoot and
collect coins again, enter the next warp, and eventually get to
the space truck.

THE SPACE TRUCK
When you enter the co-ordinate on the graph with the space truck
in it, the "X" pointer turns into a fish.  Follow this fish to
the Space Truck and shoot the shit out of it.  When you have done
enough damage to it, it will surrender and you may dock it. (the
screen will say "DOCK NOW" in big letters).  Just go to the
truck.  Now you must fight your way back. (its easy)  Just fire
at anything that comes at you. Before you know it you will have
completed the mission and you will have money.

THE PLANET
You can go to the planet symbol.  There you must fly around and
find a big round spacecraft.  Shoot the shit out of this and you
will get somewhere around 80,000 points to use in the mission the
same way you use the coins (and later keep).

WHAT TO DO WITH MONEY BACK AT THE BASE
Sorry, you can't buy wares with it.  But you can upgrade your
ship (With the "REFIT SHIP" feature). You can buy better Shields,
Weapons, and Drives.  As you gain more and more money, you will
add better equipment to your ship. The more somehthing costs, the
better it is.

QUITTING THE GAME
Quit the game before you turn off the computer or some of your
accomplishments may be lost!  Continue later and go on harder
missions and become a wealthy pirate.