		DEMON'S TOMB - THE AWAKENING

Typed in by Parasite, Shagratt, and Frodo. Edited by Parasite. 
Note that this is a slightly edited version of the docs, and not word Šperfect as we didn't bother stating the obvious, (except for all the Šintro's which are word perfect) but all vital information is present Šand correct for playing the game. Thanx to Vulcan for supplying the Šoriginals. 


REVELATIONS OF KLAADRA
The Barfwyd were born twin sons by his first wife. He named them Thai Šand Tzen, both where wise and learned in the craft of high priesthood Šbut Tzen the youngest had the greatest skill. He taught his mind to Šfloat free from his body and looked beyond the world.... but Thai Šargued that universe had no end. Tzen could not believe this and sought Šso prove his elder brother wrong. In a fit of rage Tzen seized the Šmind of his brother and flew out into the void. Thai struggled to break Šfree but his brothers will held him fast. Tzen travelled further than Šhe ever had been before and became afraid. Still he travelled on. Tzen Špassed the last star he knew and still he travelled on. All the while Šhe probed ahead looking for an end, the edge of everything. 
Darasuggotha heard them as a whisper at the edge of his void and reached Šthrough to take the mind of Tzen. Perceiving the foul touch of ŠDarasuggotha on his brothers being, Thai fought to pull him free. ŠDarasuggotha looked into the mind of Tzen and for a dreadful purpose Šof his own, released him to Thai. When Tzen mind returned to his body Šhis eyes burned with cruel madness..... and in the years after his Šfathers unexpected death lord Tzen worshipped the forbidden god openly. ŠHe even dared to speak of summoning his master from beyond the edge. ŠFor high priest Thai this was too much. He banished Tzen to the unholy Šisle of Breton... On hearing the news, high priest Thai journied in Šdisguise to the isle. There, in secret he grew to know to mind of his Ševil brother. So on that midsummers eve when lord Tzen began the Šrights of summoning, Thai was ready and stepped into the circle. None Šother but an identicle could have passed another web of throught. ŠThai knew that this way, the only the way he could better the stronger Šwill of his brother. From within the being of Tzen, Thai spoke, "Mend Šthy way brother. I speak from within you and could end your life at a Šthrought." Tzen replied "You dare not Thai for your life would end Šalso." Undaunted by this, the high priest, "To save our world from the Šforbidden god I am willing to die. Call off the summoning." Tzen Šconsidered this and submitted to his older brother.
Tzen refused to renounce the forbidden god. High priest Thai pleaded Šwith him but Tzen just argued that the stars would not be right for Šanother summoning for many lifetimes so what harm was there. The high Špriest knew this to be true and took pity on his younger brother. ŠLater that year, Tzen too his own life and was buried on a tomb on the Šunholy isle. His disiplies believed that he was not dead but just Šsleeping until the time was right for the summoning. 
The high priest did not trust his brothers death for he had not felt Šit in his heart as a twin should of done. He believed that his brother Šhad hidden his mind where none could find it, until as such time as Šthe heavens where ready once again. For this reason the high priest Šbuilt himself a tomb on the unholy isle close to his brothers. Sealing Šthe door from the inside, he sat down and looked out into the void for Šthe return of his brothers mind. In time the tombs became grassy Šmounds and their tale faded from the memory of their people. Yet even Što this day the high priest maintains his lonely vigil. 

EXMOOR NEWSLETTER - SPRING 1990

STRANGE DEATH ON THE MOORS
78 year old Edith Turner was found dead on the roadside this month, Šclose to Culcombe manor church, where she was walking her dog every Šday. Her body was discovered by a National trust worker Dug Walker, Šon his way to the compound at Culcombe with some new saplings for the Šforest, in early hours of May 3rd last. 
"It were a bit of shock comin' across the old dear like that, she was Šlyin' in heather a few feet from the road her and the dog, stone dead Šthe pair of 'em. Not a mark on them mind you, just a horrible look on Šher face, like something from hell had come up and got her. Horrible Šit were."
Police sources commented that there was no discernible course of death Šat the time but the inquest had reviled massive damage of the hearts of Šboth Miss Turner and the dog. Pathologist where at a loss to explain Šthe findings, other than a simultaneous heart attack.
The final twist to the story comes from Dr. Blaise, how carried out Šthe autopsy on Miss Turner. "I have seen nothing like it, the heart Šwasn't so much damaged as torn to pieces. It looked as if something Šhas worried it, like a dog worries a bone. If it was a heart attack, Šit must have pretty dam spectacular... and there where claw marks."
Unfortunately Dr. Blaise was unable to elaborate after speaking to the Šauthorities and later denied he had ever made the statement."  Šwill be best remembered for her work raising funds for the village Šcommunity and for her tireless campaigning for the privately owned ŠCulcombe manor church to be reopened to the public, following it's Šclosure by the new owner last year. 

EXCEPTIONAL TIDES THIS YEAR
The forthcoming Equinox brings with it the usual tide warnings, Šhowever this years first day of spring will produce exceptional highs Šand lows according to Bristol University. 
They claim that the unusual alignment of the Solar system, with the ŠMoon closer to Earth than ever before since records began, will cause Šfreak conditions around the time of the tide turning. 
The coastguard are particularly warning locals to stay clear of the
shallow channels around the Exmoor coast on March the 21st itself, as Šthe channels will be at their lowest ebb and miles of beach normally Šunderwater will be revealed. Around 11.15 is the point of lowest water, Šwith the strong possibility of freak waves as the tide rushes back in, Šurged on by the odd conditions. Naturalists wishing to study the Šphenomena are warned to take care. 

02.28 SUNDAY MARCH 20TH 1990
The story begins on a one man archaeological dig in a remote English Šforest in the heart of Devonshire. The one man with whom we are Šconcerned is a professor Edward Lynton, an unfortunate academic doomed Što die a violent and mysterious death.......
A cold gust of night air blew through the open door of the tomb. The Šlamp light flickered wildly, throwing eerie shadows on the face of the Škneeling figure. Lynton paused for a moment to glance up at the Šinscriptions on the wall before him, then resumed his frantic Šscribbling in the notebook, his face twisted with desperation and his Šeyes those of a man nearing total madness. 
Startled by a noise behind him Lynton spun around, but it was too Šlate. The massive stone door had slammed shut before he could cover Šhalf the distance to the entrance. 
The oil lamp which had been hanging from it had been dashed to the Šfloor and it ignited, sending flames shooting across the layers of dry Šleaves and debris covering the floor. Even as the blaze took hold and Šswept towards him Lynton could see there was no escape for him and he Šturned away, in the tomb to find a way to warn those who would find Šhis charred body ......... 
He had to save everything of importance from the fire, so very much Šdepended on it now........
You will begin the game in control of Edward Lynton and must help him Šsave his knowledge from the flames. Following his death his son Richard Šwill be looking for him and you will assume control of this character.
If Lynton senior. succeeds in preserving enough clues, then Richard Šshould be able to go on and solve the riddle of his fathers murder, Šbecoming evermore involved in a much larger and more horrifying Šmystery as he does so.
The episode with Edward in the tomb is played as a prologue to the Šgame proper, which must be solved before a full solution is possible. ŠNote that saving him is not possible! Whatever devious method you may Šconcoct, there is nothing to be done other than to ensure he does not Šgo out in vain. 
Time to play.........................................................

QUICKSTART INSTRUCTIONS.
1. The game will be set to typed text mode when you start, enabling Šyou to enter text as you would for any other adventure. The parser Šsupports multiple commands, separated by 'and' or fullstops. 'Again' Šrepeats the whole of your last line of input as though you had        Šretyped it. Graphics are called up by pressing F1. 
2. At the outset you are in control of Lynton senior. he will die soon Šafter the game begins, what ever you do, don't waste time trying to Šsave him. Concentrate on trying to save his possessions from the Šblaze.
3. Use the 'ramsave' function often then when you are killed, which Šyou will be, often, 'ramload' puts you back at the point you reached Šwhen you last typed 'ramsave'.
4. The game uses a 'think about' feature, as another form of the Š'examine' command, which activates your characters experience and can Šprovide clues and insight into particular objects and people. You will Šneed this to solve many of the puzzles, or even to progress very far Šinto the mystery. Characters can think about anything they come Šacross, even if they have only read about it, or have been told about Šit by someone else.
5. 'Undo' can be used to undo what ever consequences occurred as a Šresult of your last actions, even if it was fatal. One undo works on Šone input line, regardless of how many commands it contains. 

CONTROLING THE GAME
There are two modes of interaction to allow the user to customise Šthings to suit himself. These are Typed text mode and Menu mode and Šcan be changed by between, during the game.

TYPED TEXT MODE
This the normal way in which commands are entered into adventure Šgames, simply type in your commands and press the return key. However Šthe game has three features which enhance the speed of entry and the Šease of use.

A. LINE EDITOR - This allows you to correct typing mistakes in your Šcurrent command line and to recall, alter and re-use any of your 
previous ten command lines.
B. MACROS - These are essentially user defined abbreviations. For Šexample you can define 'X' to mean 'Examine', 'GA' to mean 'Get all' Šetc.
C. ADVANCED PARSER - The parser interprets your commands and turns Šthem into actions. The games parser accepts many effort-saving complex Šcommands. It also deliberately encourages you to be lazy by filling in Šmissing parts of your input. If ambiguities exist, it can offer you a Šnumbered possibilities and your simply press a key complete your input.


THE LINE EDITOR
This allows you to do two things;
A. Make alterations to the line you are typing. You will make typing Šmistakes, and the simplest of these is hitting the wrong key. To Šcorrect this press the 'Backspace' key until you have deleted the Šunwanted characters. If you make a mistake earlier in the line there Šis no need to delete and re-type the whole line. Instead move the Šcursor to where you made the mistake by using the following keys;
LEFT ARROW - 1 character left
RIGHT ARROW - 1 character right
CTRL LEFT - one word left
CTRL RIGHT - one word right
HOME - start of line
END - end of line

Some other useful keys for chopping your input;
DELETE - delete the character at the cursor
CTRL BACKSPACE - delete everything before the cursor
CTRL RETURN - delete all from the cursor onwards
It is useful to know that it doesn't matter where the cursor is on the Šline when you press return.

B. retrieve any of the last ten lines your typed for re-use. By Šrepeatedly pressing the up cursor key you can step back through the Šlast ten lines you typed in and find the line you wish to re-use. If Šyou go too far use the down cursor key to step forward again. Once you Šhave found the one your require, you can either edit as if you had Šjust typed it in or enter it by pressing 'RETURN'. If you want to look Šat a previous line without losing the line you are typing, use the up Škey, the old line and then the down to return to your current line. You Šmay also use the mouse to move the cursor and retrieve previous lines. ŠHorizontal movement move the cursor left/right and vertical movement Šretrieves previous lines.
On the Amiga you may use the 'SHIFT' key instead of the 'CTRL' key, Šyou may also use 'CTRL DEL' instead of 'CTRL RETURN'.

USING KEYBOARD MACROS
There are three commands wich allow you to define macro's Š(abbreviations). These are 'define', 'list', and 'undefine.

DEFINE - This allows you to define one word to mean another word or Šwords and can then be used instead of the word or words. E.G 'Define Šga=get all'
LIST - This command lists all the macro's you have defined.
UNDEFINE - Incase you change your mined or define a macro Šincorrectly, this deletes a particular macro. E.G 'Undefine ga'

THE POWER OF THE PARSER
The game understands more complex input's than so far described. These Šare listed below.

Multiple sentences on one input line;
>go north and then kick the bucket
>go north.Kick the bucket
>n, kick bucket

Some verbs allow more than one direct object;
>Take the bag, the bucket and the pen
>Take bag,bucket and pen
>take bag, bucket, pen

It/them and to reference the direct object;
>take the note book
>read it
>put them in the bag

Smart use of and/,/&;
>get book and bucket and pen and put them in the bag
>get book, bucket, pen put them in bag


Him/her to reference the last character;
>Pick sam up. Examine him
>take the sandwich from sam. hit him with it

Some verbs allow you to use all/everything and but/except;
>take all
>take everything
>take all except notebook and bag
>take all but notebook

Adjectives can be used to specify a particular object;
>get the red bag and the black bag
>get all the red things
>put all the metal things down

Some verbs allow you to use plurals;
>drop the books
>take everything but the books
>drop all the books execept the old one and the red ones

Random selection of an object;
>drop something
>throw a book at sam
>read one of the books

Speaking with the characters in the game;
>say " hello" to sam
>sam, "hello"
>tell Vaulker about the notebook

It also tries to complete incomplete sentences. E.G 
>take
(sleeping bag)

If there is more than one visible object you will be presented with a Šlist E.G
1. sleeping bag
2. notebook
3. biro
4. torch
take which of these?
just press a numeric key to select an item.

This system is also used for directions.
For verbs like 'examine' and 'look under', no selection is offered as 
this may give away some of the puzzle. Instead, a question is displayed Šfor you to type in a answer. E.G
>Examine
Examine what ?
>The coffin

In many cases the game will take or drop objects as required before Šexecuting your command. E.G. (assuming you are not caring a key)
>unlock the door with the key
(taking the key first)

MENU MODE
This allows you to enter commands in a fast way. A menu at the bottom Šof the screen offers a range of verbs. To give a command you must Šselect a verb from this menu in one of these ways;

1. If the verb you want is already highlighted, then just press Šreturn.
2. If the verb you want is adjacent to or almost adjacent to the Šcurrently highlighted verb, just use cursor keys to select and press Šreturn.
3. Otherwise, type in the first letter of the verb you want. This Šmoves the highlighter to the next verb which starts with that letter. 
If this isn't the verb you want, then press the same letter until the Šverb you require is reached, or use the cursor keys to reach it.
Verbs starting with the same letter have been ordered so the most Šfrequently used verbs come first. EG. ~examine' comes before 'eat' as Šthere are more things to examine than eat. Another useful feature is Šbackspace key, this highlights the previous verb starting with the Šsame letter. If the verb selected requires an object you will be Špresented with a list of possibilities; EG. 

'examine'  
notebook
torch 
sleeping bag

You must select an object using the same techniques already described. ŠSome verbs require a direct object and an indirect object, in which Šcase a second menu is offered.

SOME IMPORTANT COMMANDS
The following commands do not make your character do anything in the Šstory, they make it easier for you to play the game.
'again' This will repeat the last input
'undo' This will undo whatever happened as a consequence of your last Šinput.
'exits' This will list all available exits. 
'time' This will tell you the current game time in a 24 hour format.
'restart' This takes you back to the beginning of the game.
'quit' This quits the game.
'ramsave' / 'ramload' This will save/load your current position and Šsituation in the game.
'load' (or restore) / 'save' (or store) this is the same as 'ramsave' Š/ 'ramload' but uses the disk.

OPTIONS MENU
To select this menu press the escape key or right mouse button. A list Šof options will be displayed, which can be changed by using left/right Šcursor keys. There are may options available, and most are Šstraightforward, and so will not be described here, except the Šfollowing;
'echo to printer' turning this option on will cause everything to be Šprinted out via your printer. If the printer isn't on, this will stop Šworking and the option will be turned off. Note that 1 megabyte is required Šfor this.

THE PANIC BUTTON
Now you can claim you are hard at work on your Amiga, if someone Šenters the room simply press f2 and the screen will clear and a dummy Šprompt will appear. If someone presses any key a message is displayed
'the machine is busy, do not touch'. Press f2 to return to game. 
 
DEMONS TOMB, A WAY THROUGH
What follows next in the manual is a list of hints (written backwards) Šof how to solve them adventure, I am not prepared to type these Šbackwards, and having them printed forwards means you will read part Šof them without realising, which would spoil the game, which isn't very Šhard. Real men don't need hints. So yah boo you cheating gits ha ha.
