                            DUNGEON MASTER

Typed by ALKI of STEEL PULSE. Edited by Parasite.


                                POWER
                                ^^^^^
 The power symbols are the starting point for all spells. Where the other
 symbols give substance to spells, these symbols impart strength. Starting
 from the weakest symbol, LO, up to the most powerful, MON, the spellcaster
 may control the power of a spell to suit the situation. Each step on the 
 scale is equal, so the additional Mana needed for a specific spell of the
 next level should always be the same.

 Symbol #
 ^^^^^^^^
 1.      The shrinking pattern of LO elicits an effect opposite to MON by
	 drawing power away from the other syllables in the spell. The re-
	 sulting spell is weaker, but easier for the neophyte magic-user
	 to control.
 2.	 UM controls and directs the forces of stupidity and lethargy. Its
	 weakening effect on other syllables is less drastic than LO, so
	 spells of this power require more experience to cast safely.
 3.	 The effect of the syllable ON is that of equality. The natural 
	 strength of the other syllables in the spell determines the power
	 of the finished incantation.
 4.	 A subtle opposite to UM, the tilted square appears balanced on a
	 point, poised for movement in any direction. UM's dull corners
	 have become the sharp points of the symbol EE. Speed and in-
	 telligence are the forces that combine to make spells of this
	 symbol more powerful (and costly) than normal.
 5. 	 The basis for the symbol PA is still being debated by scholars,
	 but the effect of the spell syllable is much better known. Its
	 ability to increase the power of a spell is second only to MON.
 6.	 Tapping the strength that builds mountains is the greatest of the
	 power symbols, MON. Only a well practiced magic-user can control
	 spells of this size and power.

                             ELEMENTAL INFLUENCE
                             ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
 1.1 	 Solidity and structure are the main components of the symbol YA,
	 used to represent the elemental influence of earth. A useful 
	 syllable, YA is the basis of many protection spells.
 2.2	 Water is the most precious of the elemental influences, for, more
	 than a thirst quencher, water can both restore health and give 
	 life. The syllable VI petitions the aid of this least abundant
	 element.
 3.3	 The elemental influence of air is conjured with the spell syllable
	 OH, and the properties of gases are often imparted to the result.
	 In knowledgeable hands, this symbol can be used to temporarily
	 alter solid objects so they no longer block vision.
 4.4	 The syllable FUl invokes the elemental power of fire. It extracts
	 the essence of heat and flame from the air and all nearby sub-
	 stances and temporarily concentrates them under the control of the
	 magic user. Further syllables can bottle this power or send it 
	 flying, before the inherent instability of the concentrated energy
	 explodes intro a devastating fireball.
 5.5     The sun burns the desolate plain of the symbol DES. Like the barren
	 desert it represents, this syllable invokes destitution, de-
	 solation, absence, the void. The power of the void is one of the
	 few that can damage creatures of vapor and denizens of the ethereal
	 plane.
 6.6     The most dangerous of the elemental influences is not fire, but the
	 negative material ZO. However, a great deal of Mana must be expended
	 to keep this essence under control, for negative material can absorb
	 the matter from any material object or being in an instant.

                                      FORM
                                      ^^^^
 1.1.1	 The queen of venom, the black-window spider brandishes a single spot
	 of color on her otherwise jetblack form. Hourglass-shaped, she seems
	 to warn that time will soon run out for the unfortunate soul she 
 	 bites. In the symbology VEN, which encompasses and conducts all 
 	 things poisonous.
 2.2.2   EW depicts the head and arm of a beast. This syllable is used to
	 fashion the elemental component into the form of a creature. Though
	 the conjuration of elementals is still only a theoretical possibili-
	 ty, the syllable is still useful to "sculpt" a spell to affect only
	 the monsters targeted.
 3.3.3   The expanding lines of the symbol KATH characterise the shockwaves
	 emanating from a single source. This follows, for the syllable KATH
	 imparts explosive force to spells which already involve energetic
	 elements such as light or air.
 4.4.4   IR abstracts the arc of a swing, and, appropriately, imparts the 
	 ability to float or fly to a cast spell. By giving motion to the
	 completed incantation, the spell can be sent traveling through the
	 air.
 5.5.5   The reciprocal arms of the symbol BRO represent the mutual support
	 and honesty of true friendship. However, recent usage of this con-
	 struct has drawn upon its power for the creation of beneficial
	 potions.
 6.6.6   Constructed from components of fire, lightning and the spear, the
  	 jagged line of the symbol GOR combines to invoke the attributes of
 	 an enemy. Like its opposite, BRO, recent usage has broadened the 
	 power of GOR to the creation of dangerous potions.

                                CLASS/ALIGNMENT
                                ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
 1.1.1.1.The sword of the fighter is clearly symbolized by KU, the evoker
	 of all things martial.
 2.2.2.2.The symbol for ROS depicts a hand reaching for an object of value,
	 and, as such, is the abstraction for a syllable that involves all
	 aspects of the thief and his art.
 3.3.3.3.DAIN depicts the spell leaving the magician's raised staff, and in
	 turn conjures the realm of the wizard and draws around the skills
	 and power of their art.
 4.4.4.4.The cross is unmistakable in the priestly character NETA. But, 
	 unlike the syllables for the other classes, NETA is unfluenced far
	 less by the natural forces. Instead, the power of this symbol is
	 related to the magic-user's standing with his or her god. But the
	 favor of a deity is not easily bottled, so potions having this
	 intent are rarely effective.
 5.5.5.5.RA is the most energetic and powerful of the spell syllables. The
	 light and heat of the sun and stars are the sources tapped with this
	 syllable. Fortunately, it happens to be a somewhat cooperative form
	 of energy and is relatively easy to channel once the magic-user has
	 learned how to draw it forth.
 6.6.6.6.SAR is the effective opposite of RA. The symbol depicts the head of
	 a demon. The demon stands for darkness and evil and the guardian of
	 night, the moon. The power of darkness is great, but unruly, so
	 magic-users must expend more of their own Mana energy when attempt-
	 ing to control it. Evil owes no allegiance, and is therefore an
	 inherently dangerous element to include in a spell.