                             ELITE

Typed in by ???. Edited by Parasite.


SUMMARY OF CONTROLS

SPACE FLIGHT CONTROLS:          SPACE COMBAT CONTROLS:

Anticlockwise roll      [ < ]*  Fire lasers             [ A ]*
Clockwise roll          [ > ]*  Target missile          [ T ]
Dive                    [ S ]*  Fire missile            [ M ]
Climb                   [ X ]*  Unarm missile           [ U ]
Increase speed          [SPC]*  ECM                     [ E ]
Decrease speed          [ ? ]*  Energy bomb             [TAB]
Front view              [ 1 ]   Escape capsule          [ Q ]
Backview                [ 2 ]   Docking computer on/off [ C ]
Left view               [ 3 ]   Retro rocket            [ R ]
Right view              [ 4 ]   Flight grid scanner X1/2[ Z ]

* Or joystick/mouse (Button)

NAVIGATIONAL CONTROLS:          TRADING CONTROLS:

Hyperspace              [ H ]   Launch from station     [ 1 ]*
Intergalactic jump      [ J ]   Buy cargo               [ 2 ]*
Galactic hyperdrive     [G+H]   Sell cargo              [ 3 ]*
Distance to system      [ D ]   Equip ship              [ 4 ]*
Identify                [ I ]   Galactic chart          [ 5 ]
Galactic chart          [ 5 ]   Local cluster chart     [ 6 ]
Local cluster chart     [ 6 ]   Data on system          [ 7 ]
                                Market prices           [ 8 ]
                                Status page             [ 9 ]
GAME CONTROLS:                  Inventory               [ 0 ]
                                Find Planet             [ F ]*
Freeze game             [ P ]
Options                 [ + ]
Credits                 [ W ]

* Only while docked

SPACE TRADERS FLIGHT TRAINING MANUAL

INTRODUCTORY DATA:
Welcome aboard this Cobra Mk III trading and combat craft. The ship
has been supplied to you by Faulcon daLacy Spaceways, by arrangement
with the Galactic Co-operative of Worlds whose Space and Interstellar
Pilot's Exams you have just successfully completed. The small flight
manual supplied with the craft is designed to familiarise you with
all aspects of space flight, combat and trading, and we hope that it
will be of use to you.
You begin your career, your ship equipped with one forward-firing
pulse laser, three homing missiles, 7 light years of fuel, and the
sum of 100 Credits (CR), ready to embark from a space station in
orbit around the planet Lave.
The Cobra Mk III is the best of the medium-range, medium capacity
fighter-traders, and is an ideal ship for new traders intent on
building their fortunes, or new combateers who will constantly need
to finance the cost of both armaments and non-combative equipment.
The ship is highly manoeuvrable, has a good C-holding factor during
hyperspace transit, can hold sufficient Quirium H-fuel for a
7-light-year single jump and has full Auto Trading Systems Link for
use at space stations.  Further, it is protected by dual Zieman
Energy Deflection Shields, powered by four energy banks, and has a
powerful, rapid-fire pulse laser mounted on the forward hull segment.
Flight controls are elegant and simple, and the bridge is equipped
with both HoloDirect and ThruSpace GravDistort communications
systems.  Its life support functions are varied and flexible to
ensure maximum comfort during trading or hunting operations.
Pilot licences are issued only at the planet Lave, and it is likely,
therefore, that you are now docked at a Coriolis station in orbit
around that particular world.  Lave is a rich, agricultural
dictatorship, but is a reasonably safe world at which to begin your
endeavours. GalCop and the Lave Authorities allow practice docking &
departure runs to all their space stations here, and you would be
advised to take advantage of this facility.

INTERIOR OF COBRA MK III:

THE CARGO HOLD fills the bulk of the mid-space area, and the cargo
bay doors open downwards.  The capacity in an unmodified Cobra is 20
1-tonne canisters.  Extra cargo space may be acquired by extending
the cargo bay, which does not affect manoeuvrability. Tonne canisters
(TC) attach magnetically to the cargo arms within the bay, and two
AutoShuttles occupy the central space.
THE BRIDGE has seats for pilot and co-pilot, a MedStim Centre,
entrance to the escape pod, is descent well to living quarters,
communications console, special suit locker, RemLock supply case,
attachment facilities for AutoDock System and a hand-weapons locker.
The main wall is occupied by the scanner screen, astrogation console
and mainsystems monitors.
THE DRIVE SECTOR houses the directional thrusts, the System Space
Kruger 'lightfast' motors, and the Irrikon Thru-Space drives. Also
here are rear laser housing, the ECM capsule, the Zieman shield
generators, and energy banks, the Witch-Space fuel condensers
(Quirium).  There are both internal and external access panels.
Radiation level is high.
THE LIVING AND HYGIENE SECTION is below the main bridge, and reached
through a descending gravity well. Two bunks, food dispensing
facilities ,waste disposal (including high-tox copper exudate for
Aonians) ,Synpleasure relaxapads, and videos.
THE EQUIPMENT LEVEL runs throughout the ship, and houses all the
energy banks for lasers, plus the missile rests, with dispatch shafts
to the lower hull.  The communications centre is here, and the escape
pod (with a separate entrance from the bridge) life support systems,
cryogen tanks (two) and forty cubic metres of FacsEnvironment for
energy use.
The 'Present System' refers to the planetary system which your ship
is currently in; while the 'Hyperspace System' refers to the system
onto which the hyperspace is locked.
There are four possible 'Conditions': DOCKED means that you are
docked in a space station at the present system; GREEN means that
there is no immediate danger; YELLOW indicates indicates enemy ships
in the vicinity; Condition RED signals a hig-risk on-going death-type
combat situation.
THE STATUS PAGE:
'Legal Status' refers to your Galactic Police record. If this is
CLEAN you have nothing to worry about, but as an OFFENDER or, still
worse, a FUGITIVE you are likely to be attacked by police ships.
The 'Rating' is a dispassionate assessment of your performance in
combat so far.
Current cash and fuel are also displayed, along with a list of ship
fittings.

YOUR RATHING AS A COMBATEER:
To become an elite combateer requires great skill and great patience,
because expert trading is essential before the necessary more
powerful armaments and equip available to the Cobra ship can be
bought: beam lasers, more missiles, energy bombs, a docking computer,
galactic hyperdrive,etc.
As you sail through space between the stars, and as you trade, you
will live with your combat rating. You will begin as HARMLESS. If you
survive your first skirmish you may be reclassified as MOSTLY
HARMLESS.  But on the slow climb to a status level that reflects a
growing talent for combat you will have to engage many different
ships, in many different skirmishes, in the System Space of many
different worlds. You will be classified as POOR then AVERAGE, then
ABOVE AVERAGE, then COMPETENT. Then you will become DANGEROUS, then
DEADLY. And at last, a few will become ELITE.
Your kills are photographed and transmitted by TS ComDirect to the
nearest GalCop Federal Law Centre. Your rating as a combateer will
increase in direct proportion.
Fly your Cobra craft wisely and carefully. Remember: other pilots may
be attempting to increase their own combat rating by attacking either
innocent traders, or police Vipers (the ships of the GalCop Police
Force). If you resort to such tactics (or if you adopt the
fast-credit routine and trade in illegal gods) then your combat rating
may rise, but your legal status: CLEAN--OFFENDER--FUGITIVE, will make
you Public Energy Number One with the Federation Crime Monitoring
Authority and you will not be left alone.

NAVIGATION AND FLYING

NAVIGATION:
The Galactic Co-operative is only one - although the largest - of
several planetary federations, and maintains trade and diplomatic
links with over 2000 planets spread throughout 8 galaxies. The
political profile of a planet is an important navigational
consideration as many are in a state of anarchy and are unsafe to
visit in poorly equipped ships.  Important too is its economic
profile, as will be discussed in the section about trading.
Navigational strategy depends of course upon your aims in life. If
you think you have what it takes to become Elite, you will need to
chart your path through the galaxies with care and great precision.
You will wish to equip your ship as fully and as early as possible.
You will, therefore, need to study the trading section of this manual
so that you can work out a profitable trading route in order to be
able to afford the weaponry you will require.  You will have to make
decisions about how dangerous a life you wish to lead: in general,
the more risks you take (travelling to dangerous planets or trading
in contraband goods), the faster you may equip your ship but the
quicker you will be killed.  You will discover that life in the 8
galaxies is a question of fine balance. Although it may seem, at
first, that indiscriminate carnage is a soft option (kills improve
your rating, after all), as your skills and experience of living in
space mature, you will quickly discover that piracy is a short-lived
career.
Success in this context is a mosaic of talents: combative, certainly,
but thinking and decision-making talents too.
There are 8 galaxies, and over 250 recognised planets in each galaxy.
So massive a universe contains very little that is completely
predictable, and offers infinite opportunities for adventure.
Here you are introduced to all the controls which will eventually be
useful to you in developing a route thrugh the 8 galaxies

NAVIGATIONAL CONTROLS:
It is important that you do not press the f1 key at the moment.

GALACTIC CHART
This chart shows all registered worlds within the galaxy, & indicates
your own coordinate position. The star cursor may be used to scan the
shown worlds for potentially favourable trade sites.

WORLD DATA LINK
The Orbit Space Authority takes no responsibility for the accuracy of
the information registered here, but the trader may gain some idea of
the relative wisdom of trading with the world whose data is
displayed. The information shown is distance, type of main life form,
degree of agricultural or industrial development, with industrial and
technological level displayed on a scale 1-12. The government type,
ranging from Corporate State of Anarchy, will be a strong indication
of the danger of trading with the system.
Use 5 again to return to the chart and acquire information about some
more planets.
The larger of the crosses on the chart shows where your ship is and
the circle shows how far it can jump with its current hyperspace fuel.
O returns the small cross to the larger one.

LOCAL NAVIGATIONAL CHART
This is a high power chart of all planets in the immediate vicinity
of your docking world. Since the Cobra ship has a maximum single
H-jump range of 7 light years, the target world must be chosen
carefully. The target cursor, used in conjunction with the Worldata
link, will indicate dangerous or likely worlds for trade.

A CORIOLIS SPACE STATION
Every world registered with the galactic Co-operative has several
Coriolis space stations in orbit at various altitudes. Coriolis
stations are 'neutral' territory, controlled equally by GalCop and
the Planetary Government.
A new dodecahedral design (the so-called 'Dodo' stations) is
replacing the Coriolis design in the more advanced systems. Coriolis
stations are hexagonal in approximate shape. They spin along asingle
axis running vertically from the planet below. One side of the
station always faces the planet, and it is on this facet that the
access tunnel is located.
Coriolis stations were designed at the GASEC (Galactic Astronautic
and Space Exploration Centre) Laboratories on the planet Vetitice.
The first station was in orbit around the world Lave in 2752.
Coriolis stations have powerful defensive shields (against pirate
attack and inept docking) and a large fleet of Viper fighters, and
several larger types of ship.  The inside of the station is
free-space, and on each inner facet of the station there are berthing
and refuelling facilities, as well as cities, hospitals, farmlands
and leisurescapes.
Each Coriolis station has a diameter of 1 standard kilometre. They
can berth 2000 ships, and support a fair-sized colonial life
development of humanoids.

LEAVING THE SPACE STATION
On coding for Station Depart the pilot is advised to accept a
10-second MemnSomn to dispense with subjective experience of the
passage from docking bay to Coriolis station egress. The screen will
then show a break-pattern, which is the passage through the
protective field over the Coriolis entrance tunnel.

BASIC MANOEUVRES
The Cobra trade ship needs practice to fly well, though it is highly
manoeuvrable, very fast, and a good combat vessel. It accelerates
rapidly using fingertip control.
You might see some Cobra Class ships. These are other traders like
yourself, and will not harm you unless you shoot at them. If you do
this they will either attack or alternatively, run away.
Should you use them for combat practice, do not expect the space
station to turn a blind eye to such unruly behaviour.
Nothing will attack you while you are within sight of the space
station - unless you make a nuisance of yourself.
It is not possible to land on the planet, and flying into planets or
space stations is fatal. The altimeter shows your height above the
planet's surface, and you should not let it fall too low.
(If you are a new pilot, now is your best chance to practice docking
manoeuvres with the space station at Lave. The Lave Orbit Space
Authority permits an unlimited number of practice runs by newly
appointed pilots, and does not charge. This facility is suspended
during attack, or when the Coriolis station has no free docking
space. See the illustrated section on docking procedure.)

CONSOLE READINGS

1 CABIN TEMPERATURE
Cabin temperature will increase and the console register this when
your ship flies too close to a sun.

2 ALTIMETER
Your altitude above your destination planet can be crucial. Flying
too near its surface will be fatal.

3 FORWARD VELOCITY BAR
Forward velocity should be maintained at maximum on planetary
approach. Keep it low during space station approach, and minimal for
final docking.

4 GYRO ORIENT BAR
Gyro orient bar indicators show right/left roll and dive/climb status

5 SPACE STATION INDICATOR
The 'S' refers to the space station and indicates that you are within
its protective range. Pirates normalls keep well outside this area.

6 COMPASS
This instrument first picks up a target planet while it remains out
of range of the main flight-path scanner. When the planet's space
station nearest to you comes within range of it, the compass picks up
that instead.  When the dot is not solid the object is behind you;
when solid and in the centre of the compass circle, it should be
visible through your front viewfinder.

MAKING FOR YOUR TARGET WORLD
Having left the space station you will be in low orbit above the
planet Lave, moving at low velocity. You can leave the current system
using the hyperdrive - assuming you have selected a destination and
have sufficient fuel.
On arrival in a new planetary system, after transit from hyperspace,
 you will
ind yourself at some distance from your target world. This conforms
with GC Flight Law.
Even in the safest systems there can be unseen dangers, and you will
be well advised to approach orbit space, and the safety of the space
station, as quickly as possible. Increase forward velocity to maximum
At this point you can take full advantage of the Torus Jump Drive.
The Torus Jump Drive does not function (because of interference
patterns) if there is another ship, a planet or a sun in the
immediate vicinity.  If this is the case, a sound signal will occur.
Soon your ship's computer will pick up the beacon signals of the
nearest orbital space station and will re-engage the compass to track
that instead of the target planet.  Once the cobra is within scanning
and protective range of the Coriolis station, the flight-grid scanner
will begin to track it.  Its own defenses are now available for your
protection. The scan console will register the letter 'S' as long as
the space station is within range.
The intergalactic hyperdrive is expensive and can be obtained only
from planets at Tech level 10  or higher. It can only be used once,
and will take you to a system in a whole new galaxy (i.e. a new map).
There are 8 such galaxies and making 8 jumps will return you to your
starting galaxy.

DOCKING PROCEDURE
Docking with a Coriolis space station is never easy, unless the ship
is equipped with an automatic docking computer. The Navy Training
Manual recommends the following approach and dock sequence.
Locate the Coriolis station and approach it. The entrance tunnels to
all these stations face the mother planet. Fly near to the station
and then on towards the planet (monitoring altitude carefully). By
turning a half circle you will now find your ship orientated towards
the entrance.
Approach the final moments of docking at DEAD SLOW SPEED. Failure to
dock cleanly can be fatal but may simply result in your scraping the
sides of the aperture, with consequent loss of defensive shield(s)
and quite possibly your cargo. Manually control the Cobra's roll
motion to match the rotation of the Coriolis station (see
illustration). The entry port must be as nearly horizontal as
possible.
If docking is successful; the protective field across the station
entrance is penetrated, and a break pattern appears on the screen.
Berthing is handled automatically.
Docking protocol, and Orbit Space Regulations, are numerous, and are
available in the GC Orbit and System Space Code, published by
Federation Planet bureau.

INTERPLANETARY TRAVEL

IN-FLIGHT COMBAT
Not all ships in deep space, even small fighters, are pirates. Most
ships will respond to hostile action with hostile action. If you
attack a police ship or trade in contraband goods (see trading), your
legal status will be changed to OFFENDER, or even higher. If you
destroy pirate ships, or Thargoid invaders, (or asteroids) you will
receive a bounty payment. If you shoot at the Coriolis space station,
its own defensive ships (Viper class fighters) will attack you.

MANOEUVRING
The Cobra tradeship is fast, and has a very tight turning circle
(though less tight at full speed); it is an ideal combat ship against
small packs of enemy vessels. It will outrun many attack craft by
speed alone, but it will not outrun a missile. Spinning, fast-slow,
and duck-and-weave manoeuvres are very effective against the larger,
less manoeuvrable ships when they attack. A sudden decrease in speed
followed by a tight 180 degree turn and an increase in velocity will
often give you a big advantage over pursuing enemy craft.

SIGNS OF DANGER
If you cannot make an interspace quick jump towards the planet, there
is a ship in the vicinity. It could be dangerous.
Laser fire striking the defensive shields makes a light screeching
sound. Listen for laser fire striking the hull direct. Through
damaged screens it makes a low, screeching sound. DANGER.
An incoming missile will be detected, tracked, and a warning message
flashed on main screen.
Some star pilots are braver than others and pirate ships may break
off and run in the face of stiff resistance. Some appear to know no
fear - in particular Thargoid vessels, whose captains have had their
fear glands surgically removed.

LIKELY ENEMIES
Lone-wolf traders-such as Cobra pilots-are constantly at risk from
other Spacefaring types. An understanding of other packhunters,
LONERS, and bounty killers is essential.

BOUNTY HUNTERS
Unless you have achieved FUGITIVE status, and especially if you are
highly ranked as a combateer as well as being a criminal, bounty
hunters will not bother a ship as insignificant as a Cobra MK 3.
In fact, many bounty hunters favour Cobra trade-ships as they make an
excellent disguise.  But the real killers star-ride in the sleek, and
highly efficient, Fer-de-Lance Lightspeeder,in which they live for
months at a time.  Bounty hunters can always be found outside Orbit
Space, especially around worlds classified as 'dangerous'. They are
invariably of combat rating: DEADLY or ELITE. Bounty hunters rarely
identify themselves to passing ships, and if pestered too closely
will usually kill.

PIRATE VESSELS
There are several ways of identifying a space-going ship as 'pirate
occupied', and this is essential since pirates and renegades will
take any ship for their purpose, from an Asp to a massive Python.
Pirates exist everywhere in the galaxy, but cluster mainly around
unstable GalCop worlds, especially worlds run on a feudal or anarchic
system.
Small ships hovering very distant from a planet are pirates. Large
ships accompanied by a mixture of small fighter types are pirates.
Ships that refuse to acknowledge identification signals are pirates.
Around worlds run by autocracies, or clans, pirates will very often
have been paid to leave trade ships alone. Piracy is a huge, and
complex, business, and any life-respecting trader will learn the
tell-tale signs of pirate presence.

POLICE
In a Co-operative of Worlds as complex as the 2040 planets of the
GalCop, the police can be as menacing as they can be helpful. The
typical police vessel is a Viper GH Class PulseShip, which is very
fast, and very manoeuvrable.  They are on constant standby on every
CORIOLIS and Dodec space station, and will attack - a pirate, or a
fugitive trader - within seconds. They do not make arrests, they
destroy. There are different police departments serving different
purposes - narcotics, space-drunkenness, psychotic shooting, piracy,
slave trading etc. - but all have small fleets of these very fast
Viper patrol craft.

OTHER SPACE TYPES

ROCK HERMITS
Pirates, ageing bounty hunters, or planetary outcasts, who create
living space out of asteroids. They usually choose large asteroids,
and set up signal beacons to warn off miners.
GalCop Law protects Rock Hermits, but since most of the asteroid is
hollowed-out, there is little advantage to be gained by 'mining' them
anyway.

GENERATION SHIPS
Before the development of the WS Thru-Space drive, in all its various
forms, interstellar travel occurred in large, self-sustaining
environment ships - Generation Ships - most of which have now been
logged and their progress monitored. There are more than seventy
thousand of these immense vessels ploughing their way through the
galaxy, some of them into their 30th generation. The penalty for
interference with such a vessel is marooning.

SPACE DREDGERS
These immense factory ships are to be found wherever there has been a
war, or a Thargoid invasion, or a natural catastrophe. More than
forty miles long, the Dredgers are a life-form to themselves. The
Dredgers are huge cities in space, feeding off debris and ruination.
Heavily armed, and with fleets of reconditioned fighter ships, they
are to be avoided at all cost.

COMBAT CONSOLE

1 SHIELDS (FS)
Defensive shields take power from two energy bank sources, fore and
aft. Purchasing a extra enery units will increase the effectiveness
of the shields.

2 MISSILE STATUS
Missile status depicts the number of missiles on board and whether
they are 'targeted' or 'untargeted' or 'locked and ready to fire'.

3 ENERGY BANKS
Energy banks will rapidly drain if defensive shield are taking
excessive fire. Using lasers or an ECM System will also drain their
resources. When the fourth bank is tapped, an ENERGY LOW message will
flash onto the screen. Eventually, in normal circumstances, the banks
will be automatically replenished by surface radiation absorption.

4 LASER TEMPERATURE (LT)
Laser temperature will rise during continuous firing of the ship's
laser(s).  As the central housing overheats, the laser will
temporarily cut out rather than destroy the system. Purchasing an
extra energy unit will decrease the time taken for the lasers to cool
down in heavy combat.

5 FLIGHT GRID SCANNER
This sophisticated instrument displays a three-dimensional view of
space in the immediate vicinity of your ship, seen from a point
behind and above it. The precise position of any ship within its
range can be pinpointed. The 3-dimensional scanner operates in such a
way that you can pinpoint a ship above and below yours, as well as to
the front, behind or to the sides. The vertical bars show this
clearly. A flashing bars indicates the ship is hostile

LASERS
Pulse lasers are initially housed only in the front of the ship, and
so no sights appear across rear or side views until such time as you
have sufficient credits (from combat and trading) to afford lasers
for these mountings. As we shall see, with sufficient cash you will
also be able to upgrade pulse to more to more powerful beam lasers.
The Cobra astrogation console accommodates a single laser-fire key.
Even fully equipped only one laser may be fired at a time. If a laser
overheats it will not fire (observe the laser temperature bar).
Lasers are the principal armament of all space fighters.
Pulse lasers will be offered for sale at planets of Tech level 3 or
above (see Trading).  Beam Lasers will be offered at Tech level 4 or
above. If a beam laser replaces a pulse laser the price of the pulse
laser is refunded after the beam one has ben fitted.

PULSE LASER SPECIFICATION:
Ingram Model 1919A4 Pulse Laser is recommended for all positional
laser mountings, but is especially effective for rear-shooting.
Fires intermittent laser 'rods' 610mm in length, with a cycle rate of
1500 RoPM. The barrel is of high grade Allutium fibre, lined with
tempered QuQorian Silica. Power provided directly from inverse energy
banks contained in main ship's drive. Each rod is capable of piercing
267mm of Flux-Locke metal.

BEAM LASER SPECIFICATION:
Ingram MOdel M1928A2 is highly recommended for front shooting. Beam
lasers fire continuous laser strands, up to 150 in parallel. Barrel
is Allutium + lined with tensioned plastiglass, and as with the
1919A4 Pulse laser, power is provided by main drive link. Beam lasers
are capable of slicing through 410mm FL metal.

MILITARY LASER SPECIFICATION:
Range and operation twice as effective as the Ingram model M1928A2
beam laser. This is Lance Ferman's entree into the laser market.
Hitherto known for their highly effective and relatively cheap
missile systems, in the military laser they have in effect created a
whole new laser market. The LF90 is the current computer-aided model
and comes with x4SUSAT sights.

MISSILES
Missiles are always available, whatever your destination world,
though no more than four may be carried at any one time. They are
extremely effective weapons and are carried by the larger star ships.
Your ship's computer will warn you when one is fired at you with a
message on-screen. Unless your ship is fitted with ECM (see below)
you will have to outmanoeuvre the missile, which will home in on you
relentlessly. If a missile hits you, it can almost completely exhaust
a fully charged shield and, if your shields and energy are low, may
well be fatal.
Before a missile can be fired it must be locked onto a target. When
fired, it will home in on that target and destroy it, unless your
enemy successfully takes one of the precautions described above. The
missile launch mechanism is very reliable and hardly ever jams.
Missiles can be locked onto targets in any view.

MISSILE SPECIFICATION:
Lance  Ferman Homing Missiles (4x4) are now recommended for all small
class trade-combat ships, but can be fitted as part of a mixed design
weapon rack. LF missiles have 2IL-135 guidance systems, and optional
manual directional control overrides. Warhead packed with Terminal 9
explosive, and the 4x4 is invulnerable to all known counteraction,
except ECM systems. Capable of Megazon Destruct Force 7. Prototype
first used in 2987, during Ineran Wars.

ENERGY BOMBS
An energy bomb will be offered for sale at a planet of Tech level 7
or higher, and can be used only once. It will destroy all other
ships, asteroids, and missiles in the vicinity.

ENERGY BOMB SPECIFICATION:
Medusa Pandora Self Homing Energy Bomb (available at Tech Level 7
worlds or higher) is a tactical weapon capable of Megazon Destruct
Force 13. Has heat radius of 9000 km. Developed by Klaus-Kline
laboratories for multi-role combat using launch-and-leave techniques.

DEFENSIVE MEASURES

SAFE ZONE
The Orbit Space around any Coriolis Space Station is safe. The
Stations own defences will come to your immediate assistance. Entry
to safety zone is signalled below the compass.

SHIELDS AND ENERGY BANKS
Your ship comes equipped with fore and aft shields and energy banks.
The shields protect your ship from aggressive fire, and will be
recharged from the energy banks. Constant fire will harm the shields.
Once a shield is depleted, enemy lasers and missiles striking that
shield will take energy directly from the energy banks and may even
destroy items of cargo or ship fitting.  When all your energy banks
are empty your ship will be destroyed. Using lasers or an ECM system
will also deplete your energy banks.
The ship's computer will keep you informed of any damage to your ship
and will also warn you when energy levels are dangerously low.
An Extra Energy Unit may be fitted at planets of Tech level 8 or
higher, and doubles the energy bank replenishment rate. This is the
energy unit with the copper coloured top. No other unit looks like
it, or lasts like it.

DEFENSIVE SHIELD SPECIFICATION:
The shields consist of hi-tense flux webs of Zieman-charged
sub-particles. They are weakest where the laser and missile tubes
pass through the ship's hull, and along the central ship band where
the two shields overlap, and cause a stress zone.

ECM
An ECM System (literally Electronic Counter Measures System) is
offered for sale at Tech level 2, and may be used any number of times
given sufficient energy replacement. When activated the ECM destroys
all missiles in your vicinity - including any that you have fired.
Some enemy ships, especially traders, will have this and may use it
against your missiles.

ECM SPECIFICATION:
Radiant-Magnetic 'wipe-out' using ion-saturation theory developed by
Bell and Braben on Riedquat 359. Electronic Counter Measure Systems
use minute charged particles of InterSpac Heavy Element dust,
releasing their radiant energy and setting up expanding nuclear flux
chains.

ESCAPE CAPSULE
An escape capsule can be fitted in place of your cabin at any world
of Tech level 6 or higher.  If the escape capsule is jettisoned from
the ship, it will be automatically tracked by the nearest world and
will travel safely to a Coriolis space station. Your cash will be
preserved but all your cargo will be lost.
However, this item comes with a widely recognised insurance cover
which will guarantee you a new Cobra Class ship, equipped in like
manner. The contents of the cargo hold is exempt from this.
Since the unique IR signature of a ship's hull is used to file police
records, abandoning your ship in this way will have the effect
(unfortunately exploited as much by galactic brigands as trader
victims) of clearing your police record.
You may see an escape capsule leaving an enemy ship. This will not
harm you unless you crash into it.

ESCAPE CAPSULE SPECIFICATION:
Recommended model is the XEESLAN FastJet LSC 7, which can support two
human life-forms for seven weeks, in moderate Suspended An.state.

NON-COMBATIVE EQUIPMENT

FUEL
Fuel is always available.  You can refill your tanks to full (7
light-year) capacity - no less is permitted.

FUEL SCOOPS
Fuel scoops may be fitted to the hull at a planet of Tech level 5 or
higher. These enable a ship to obtain free hyperspace fuel by
'skimming the sun' - flying close to it at high velocity.
Since fuel scoops utilise powerful electro-magnetic fields to guide
the solar wind into their converters, they may also be used to pick
up miscellaneous space debris. Almost all pirate vessels are fitted
with these so that they can blast their prey apart and sift among the
wreckage, rather than attempt to dock with a hostile craft.
Once fuel scoops are installed, you can scoop up an object (such as a
cargo canister) by keeping  it in the lower half of the screen view
area while flying right up to it.

FUEL SCOOP SPECIFICATION:
Fuel scoops are considered an essential for Deep Space, and dangerous
zone trading. They have a standard design, and a standard fitment.
They use powerful electromagnetic fields to guide
solar wind or small space debris into their ReQax convertors.

CARGO BAY EXTENSION
One cargo bay extension can be bought, increasing the hold space from
20 to 35 tonnes.

CARGO BAY EXTENSION SPECIFICATION:
Standard model is the Mariner Freight Chamber.

DOCKING COMPUTER
This is available from all Tech level 9 planets; they are fitted to
the ship's flight control system and enable it to dock the ship
automatically.

DOCKING COMPUTER SPECIFICATION:
The SinCorn RemLock DA System is a sophisticated and expensive piece
of gedgetry. It comes with MemnSomm pilot interaction to induce
hi-cram sleep during the manoeuvre.

INTERGALACTIC HYPERDRIVE
The intergalactic hyperdrive is obtainable only from planets at Tech
level 10 or higher, and can only be used once.

IGH SPECIFICATION:
Although a number of manufactures have supported a whole range of IGH
motors, it is recommended you remain loyal to Xeror/Hikan who provide
the standard hyperspace transit drives.

ASTEROID MINING LASERS
Asteroid mining involves the fitting of fuel scoops and special
mining lasers to your ship. Ships which always carry them are known
as 'Belters'. They search for asteroids and, on finding one, use the
laser to fragment it into pieces sufficiently small to be taken into
the cargo bay.

MINING LASERS SPECIFICATION:
Kruger Model ARM64 Sp.  Mining laser is highly recommended as both a
trade and combat addition. Uses variable frequency laser rods of
200mm length, fired in wide beam, 100 channels/beam. Automatic
debris-pattern lock ensures no fragments of large size of target
asteroid impinge on ship space. Can destroy asteroids of up to 2KtHH
durable Mass.  Must be fitted with a fuel and matter scoop.

INTERGALACTIC TRADING
The Cobra Mk III, designed primarily as a trading ship, combines
combat efficiency and manoeuvrability with substantial cargo space
(20 Tonne Canisters) and with scoop attachments for space debris,
jettisoned cargo and space rock.
Most space stations have made the process of trading very simple, in
order to facilitate a fast turnover in goods and ships. Import and
export tariffs - which are high on some worlds - are automatically
added or deducted and this is reflected in the prices shown. The
auto-trader system, employed by the Cobras, does not allow for more
specific trading deals to be performed.
A selection of the more valuable Alien items that are tradeable is
given in this manual, but the trader must deal with them in person.
Once docked you are linked directly with the CorCom Trade System. At
your request you can obtain a list of basic trade items available for
purchase.
Slaves are measured by the tonne in the galactic trading. This may
seem a little strange, but it includes the cryogenic suspension
system necessary to keep them alive during space travel. The slave
trade, once almost eliminated by the Galactic Government is now
returning, despite the efforts of the Galactic Police Force to
suppress it.

 ITEM                                           Average price/cr
 -------------------------------------------------------------------
 Food         (Simple organic products)                  4.4 tonne
 Textiles     (Unprocessed fabrics)                      6.4 tonne
 Radioactives (Ores and by-products)                    21.2 tonne
*Slaves       (Usually humanoid)                         8.0 tonne
 Liquor/Wines (Exotic spirits from unearthly flora)     25.2 tonne
 Luxuries     (Perfumes, Spices, Coffee)                91.2 tonne
*Narcotics    (Tobacco, Arcturan Megaweed)             114.8 tonne
 Computers    (Intelligent machinery)                   84.0 tonne
 Machinery    (Factory and farm equipment)              56.4 tonne
 Alloys (     (Industrial Metals)                       32.8 tonne
*Firearms     (Small-scale artillery, sidearms etc.)    70.4 tonne
 Furs         (Inc. leathers, Millennium Wompom Pelts)  56.0 tonne
 Minerals     (Unrefined rock containing trace elements) 8.0 kg
 Gold                                                   32.7 kg
 Platinum                                               65.2 kg
 Gem-stones   (Includes jewellery)                      16.4 kg
 Alien Items  (Artefacts, Weapons etc.)                 27.0 tonne
 Medicines                                              90.0 tonne

 * These items are defined as illegal by the Galactic Government, so
   trading in them is risky.

The prices shown at the time of trading represent an offer to you and
will be guaranteed while you are in Trading Mode.
The Cobra trade ship must dock with a Coriolis space station before
buying or selling cargo.  It has no Free Space trade facility, apart
from routine jettisoning of canisters.

ADVICE TO TRADERS
The Cobra trade ship can be fitted with four lasers, four missiles
and one energy bomb. This should be sufficient to make trade possible
within the System Space of even heavily piratised worlds.
But it is strongly recommended that pilots achieve a combat of at
least 'deadly' before any worlds designated 'Anarchy' or 'Feudal' are
approached, especially if the cargo is high tech machinery of luxury
goods.
To make money as a trader is no easy talk.  Unless you have backing
capital you would be well advised to start with foodstuffs, textiles,
minerals and luxuries.
Demand for goods varies widely and prices within planets fluctuate,
but GalCop regulations prohibit planets from advertising their
requirements or announcing their market prices beyond their own
System Space. Any trader, therefore, approaches all transactions with
a certain financial risk. Trade depends upon demand, and selling
prices depend upon the level of demand on the planet, and its
available money. None of these can be assessed before docking.
Agricultural planets invariably have excess produce at reasonable
purchase prices, and such food sells well at industrialised, middle
- to high - technology worlds.  Raw materials, and ores, will sell
well to middle - tech worlds, which are usually able to refine them,
and the refined product can fetch excellent prices at worlds of very
high tech status.
The rules are complex, and anarchy and piracy has its effect on
causing the rules to change.
Think about a planet's needs. Think what might make the society
function. Don't trade expensive trivia to a hungry world.

IF THE PROFIT ISN'T WORTH IT, TRADE IT SOMEWHERE ELSE.

AGRICULTURAL WORLDS specialist food and raw materials, but mostly
basic machinery and spare parts. If they are rich, they need luxuries
and high tech industrial machines. They produce food in quantity, raw
materials and specialised 'organic' items, like some textiles.

INDUSTRIAL WORLDS need agricultural produce; raw materials (for
refining); resource exploitation machinery; (if rich) high tech
goods. They produce basic items of need for civilised worlds: beds,
seals, and gaskets, power storage units, basic weapons, mass produced
fertiliser, mass produced medicines etc.

ALTERNATIVES TO TRADING
Since the Cobra craft is equipped as a fighter as well as a trader,
with in-built capacity for strengthening its armaments, there are
alternative life-styles to trading which may prove profitable, but
which are excessively dangerous.

BOUNTY HUNTING
Galactic banks, which insure the larger trading convoys, will pay a
large bounty for each pirate ship destroyed. A ship's computer will
transmit photographic evidence of any kill to the GalCop Bank
Federation Monitoring Authority. The IR signature of the destroyed
ship is then tallied with all known pirate vessels, and the bounty
hunter pilot credited accordingly.
Bounty hunters commonly have Cobra Class ships in order to masquerade
as traders. They simply hyperspace into a system (anarchic and feudal
worlds especially) and wait to be attacked, ensuring that they have
sufficient hyperspace fuel (Quirium) for a quick escape.

PIRACY
Piracy is widespread throughout the 8 galaxies, and many pirates are
not hardened criminals at all, but failed traders who have turned to
this way of life in desperation. To survive as a pirate, looting
freighter convoys and small ships, requires a high degree of combat
experience, since not just Police Vipers will pursue them, but other
pirate ships and Bounty Hunters, too, will prey upon them.
But the rewards are high. Provided the pirate ship is equipped with a
fuel scoop, the jettisoned tonne-cannisters of attacked cargo ships
can be scooped up and traded.

ASTEROID MINING
There is money in rock, but to make the most of it a Cobra ship must
be fitted with a fuel scoop and a MinReduc 15 Mining Laser (or some
equivalent type). The mining laser will blast very large asteroids
into very small fragments and the scoop can rapidly swallow this
tradeable ore.

FREESPACE CARGO
Trade ships are often destroyed (by natural catastrophe or enemy
action) and their cargo left ungathered. Using a fuel scoop such
'free bounty' can be collected. The contents of the canisters will be
unknown until they are taken aboard and examined, and may be
worthless or worth a fortune. If their contents are illegal goods,
they cannot be traded or sold without legal risk.
(N.B: Pressurised cargo canisters are the Universal means of storing
cargo for Interplanetary Space Voyaging. Made of HiFlux Chromon
alloy, they hold one Gal-Tonne of goods, under variable pressure and
temperature conditions. Tales have been told of such barrels being
discovered after over five hundred years on barren moons, and such
'Moon salvage' is a remarkable source of historical artefact
material.)

ILLEGAL TRADING
It is surprising how many planetary systems will allow the purchasing
of illegal trade items, notably firearms, narcotics (especially
Arcturan Megaweed) and slaves. Slaves are supplied in cryosuspension
in transporter coffins, and often turn out to be old and sick
specimens of vaguely humanoid life forms. Nonetheless, few systems
will allow the selling of these items without taking recriminatory
action.

POLITICAL PROFILE OF THE UNIVERSE

CONSEQUENCES FOR TRADE
To trade successfully, and profitably, will almost certainly require
you to fly the Cobra trade ship into politically unstable planetary
systems. Pirate and freebooter activity is high in many solar
systems, and adequate ship defences are essential if the rewards of
higher selling prices are to be reaped.
For the benefit of new traders, a brief political summary is given
below, but reference should be made to KROWEKI CARR'S PSYCHOHISTORY
and Economic Theory in the GalFederation,2845
Planetary governments, or federations,
determine the relative safety of their Solar Space. Ranked in
decreasing order of safety, the 2040 officially registered worlds of
the Galactic Federation can be classified as

CORPORATE STATES, DEMOCRACIES, CONFEDERACIES, COMMUNIST STATES,
DICTATORSHIPS, MULTI-GOVERNMENTS, FEUDAL WORLDS, & ANARCHIES.

CORPORATE STATES
Like ENGEMA and ZAATXE, these are well-ordered worlds, which have
usually developed from settlers who practised a free trade form of
competition. Taxation is high on such worlds, but the living
standards are high also. Corporate planets wish to protect their
trade, so goods are expensive, but luxuries are welcomed. Import
licences are often necessary.
Engema is an agricultural world, run as a single farming
co-operative. Farmers receive a fixed payment for their crops,
whether or not the harvest is good, and selling prices do not vary
greatly. It is a dependable market, and customer relations are good.
Luxuries, machinery and raw materials sell well here.
Zaatxe is an example of a rich, industrial state (Tech level 12). It
produces luxury goods, elaborate and innovative machine systems, and
specialise in Prototype design. Prices fluctuate depending upon the
level of inter-state competition, but it is always a safe bet to buy
recently-developed machine items which have not yet spread very far
across the galaxy.

DICTATORSHIPS
Dictatorships such as the worlds LAVE and ENZAER, are only moderately
safe to trade with, but are well worth the risk (provided the trader
is well defended and combat trained). Very often pirates attack will
not occur because of an agreement between pirate fleets and the world
itself. A proportion of all incoming trade is 'allowed' to be stolen
by pirates, who will then leave the world alone, and protect its
ships from aliens or rogue traders. It is an uneasy liaison, which
often breaks down.
Lave is an agricultural world, and Enzaer is an industrial planet,
but a similar principal operates on both surfaces. There are two
trading standards, that of the People and that of the Aristocracy.
Standards of living are artificially generated, a veneer of progress,
and luxury goods, machine and textiles sell well-usually. The great
demand, however is for basic commodities, especially foodstuffs,
clothing and raw materials. These will sell well when the voice of
the People has been raised in protest.

ANARCHY PLANETS
A trader can make his biggest profits and reach his grade the
quickest. Worlds like Onisou and Xeesenri have vast wreck-yards in
far orbit, the dead places of ships that game to trade honestly, and
fell pray to trickery.
These are lawless places, and have usually have come so because the
original settlers competed too hard when there was too little
resource material. Those worlds that survived Holocaust did so
because of uneasy and bloody alliances between clan families. Pirates
and mercenaries were hied for protection and assassination purposes.
Anarchic worlds will trade readily in narcotics, slaves, firearms and
exotica, and the price will be good...if you get a price at all.
These worlds are almost always supplying invisible masters, usually
elite trader/combateer who have turned to crime has the most
profitable way off life. Such form loose federations, and trade on
black market extensively throughout the galaxies.
These worlds pay highly for goods they cannot produce themselves
because they know that traders avoid them. Their own products need
specialise, illegal outlets: weaponry, narcotics, eavesdropping
devices... if it's covert, then anarchic worlds are producing it.
Trade in these items and you will get rich quick, or dead quick, or
at least become a fugitive.

ALIEN RACES
Of the 2040 officially registered planets in the GalCop, all but 45
support human colonies only, that is to say, human presence elsewhere
is restricted to settlements in under populated parts of the land
surface.
Trading at such worlds depends, for its success, very much upon the
extent state of co-operation between human and alien. Humans control
the Coriolis stations in orbit, but the availability of items to
trade, and their relative expense, can be affected by the controlling
life forms.
Most alien life forms are either too primitive, or too glad of
off-World trade, to interfere. Some, such are the Reptilian life form
of Esanbe or the Amphibioids of Anbeen, can make a traders life very
difficult by haggling at the point of a laser.
The available planetary information on all worlds will indicate the
nature of the inhabiting lifeform.
In dealing with any Alien life-form, for the purposes of trade, there
are three cardinal rules:

Learn body language of the alien race.
Cover up your body scent
Beware of Carapace concealed weapons.

BIRD-FORMS
Dealing in alien artifacts on such worlds often involves a close
liaison with Flight Elders, or Nest Elders, and this is very much a
job for a specialist. Bird forms are, on the whole a delight to trade
with, and the highest form of honour (fairly universally) that an off
worlder can receive is an invitation to 'keep the eggs warm for a
moment'.

AMPHIBIOIDS are usually a lot sharper than their wet, sluggish
appearance would suggest.  They are usually keen to trade in
narcotics, or exotic foodstuffs. Skin creams are always well
received. Technologically they tend to be backwards, but will pay
high prices for such middle-range items as automated ponds, croak
metres, sprawn freezers and swamp purifiers.

FELINES are dangerous in the extreme. No matter what sort of
political structures the world may have, feline aliens are packed
orientated, and feudal, and very unpredictable. All traders are
advised to wear body suits, to prevent secretions of sweat from
triggering a feeding response among these hostile and enigmatic life
forms.
To win the confidence of a feline alien is almost invariably to be
invited to mate, so a certain aloofness is recommended.

INSECTOIDS
The most dangerous insectoidal life form is the Thargoid, which is
mentioned in the Combat section. Insectoidals are usually highly
intelligent, often existing as a group mind. There is rarely any
individuality among insectoids, and the trader must beware making
deals in such a way. One life form builds earth cities up to four
miles high, and over four million drones live in the middle levels.
According to legend, any trader who voluntarily ascends the earth
passageway from ground to upper surface of these immense mounds is
honoured with the rare title Ascender of the Scent City. And then
consumed alive. But trading with insectoids canbe immensely
profitable, as there are so many of them (to trade in wrist watches,
for example, means two to four watches per individual in a
clone-group of perhaps ten thousand).

OBSERVER'S GUIDE TO SHIPS IN SERVICE

In most trading and combat operations, certain ships are repeatedly
encountered.  All ships, whether unarmed cargo shuttles or Navy
transporters, are potentially dangerous as pirate and bounty hunting
activity spreads. Some ships are potentially more dangerous than
others.
For a fuller account see Jane's Galactic Ships and Remote Colonial
Construction, 5th Edition, 3205 pub. Trantor House.

ADDER:
Manufactured by Outworld Workshops, a rogue breakaway company from
Spalder and Prime Inc. which operates without a licence from and
unknown location, the Adder-class craft has dual atmospheric-spatial
capability and is often used by smugglers. Preggs 'wingfolding'
system permits landing on planetary surfaces. Carries one missile.

DIMENSIONS: 45/8/30ft

CARGO CAPACITY: 2 TC (Tonne Canisters)

ARMAMENTS: Ingram 1928 AZ
           Beam laser
           Geret Starseeker missile

MAXIMUM VELOCITY: 0.24 LM (Light Mach)

INSERVICE DATA: 2914 AD (Outworld Workshop)

MANOEUVRABILITY:CF4 (Curve Factor)

CREW NUMBER: 2

DRIVE MOTORS: AM 18 bi Thrust

HULL STRESS FACTOR: T ko 28

HYPERSPACE CAPABILITY: Yes


ASP MK II:
Galactic Navy vessel designed and manufactured in government
workshops, incorporating secret self-destruct devices which are
primed to activate when the astrogation controls are used by
unfamiliar hands.  Integument has chameleon properties enabling the
ship to assume effective camouflage in any type of environment.
Intended for reconnaissance and the transport of high-ranking
military personnel from combat it is very fast and manoeuvrable.
Despite its hazardous nature it makes an ideal pirate vessel,
primarily because of the speed, camouflage and high intensity
Hassoni-Kruger Burst-lasers. The Asp II has room for powerful shield
generators, but only one missile pod.

DIMENSIONS: 70/20/65 ft

CARGO CAPACITY: None

ARMAMENTS: Hassoni-Kruger
           Burst Laser
           Geret Starseeker Missile

MAXIMUM VELOCITY: 0.40 LM

INSERVICE DATE: 2878 AD GalCop Workshops

MANOEUVRABILITY: CF 4

CREW NUMBER: 2

DRIVE MOTORS: Voltaire Whiplash HZ Pulsedrive

HULL STRESS FACTOR: TT 16

HYPERSPACE CAPABILITY: Yes


COBRA MK III:
Larger, more popular version of the Cobra Mk 1 (the Mk 2 only reached
prototype stage and was abandoned due to a design fault in the hull).
This ship is equipped with several special features, including Zieman
Energy Deflection Shields, fore and aft, and mounting for four Ingram
Pulse lasers. The Cobra is much favoured by lone-wolf traders who
wish to combine potential superior combat qualities with adequate
cargo space.

DIMENSIONS: 765/30/130 ft

CARGO CAPACITY: 20 TC

ARMAMENTS: Ingram laser system
           Lance Ferman Seek  Kill missile system

MAXIMUM VELOCITY: 0.30

INSERVICE DATE: 3100 AD (Cowell MgRath Shipyards, Lave)

MANOEUVRABILITY: CF 8

CREW NUMBER: 1 or 2

DRIVE MOTORS:Kruger 'Lightfast' motors, Irrikan ThruSpace

HULL STRESS FACTOR: C-Holding M18

HYPERSPACE CAPABILITY: Yes


FER-DE-LANCE:
A Zorgon Petterson Group (Zee Pee Gee) designed vessel favoured by
well-heeled bounty hunters and freewheeling business corporations.
A sophisticated craft, capable of both limited trading, combat,
and leisure function. The spacious hull is mainly given over to
sophisticated weaponry, defences and navigation equipment at the
expense of cargo capacity. Cabin accommodation is large & luxurious
with extensive Owndirt Inc. Recycling facilities, encouraging
extended live-in periods (useful whilst pursuing a quarry). Fuel
scoop is a standard fitting, ensuring complete self-sufficiency.

DIMENSIONS: 85/20/45 ft

CARGO CAPACITY: 2 TC

ARMAMENTS: Ergan Laser System
           IFS Seek  Hunt missiles

MAXIMUM VELOCITY: 0.30

INSERVICE DATE: 3100 AD Zorgon Petterson

MANOEUVRABILITY: CF 5

CREW NUMBER: 12

DRIVE MOTORS: Titronix Intersun, Ionic for LT

HULL STRESS FACTOR: T Ji 10

HYPERSPACE CAPABILITY: Yes


KRAIT:
Small, reliable one-man fighter, common until the standardised
version of the Mamba became available on the open market. Several of
these early Faulcon deLacy designed craft may still be found in
service in remote areas, but spare parts are no longer available and
the need to cannibalise has reduced numbers still further in recent
 years.

DIMENSIONS: 80/20/90 ft

CARGO CAPACITY: 10 TC

ARMAMENTS: Ergon laser system

MAXIMUM VELOCITY: 0.30 Light Mach

INSERVICE DATE: 3027 AD (deLacy ShipWorks, ININES)

MANOEUVRABILITY: CF 8

CREW NUMBER: 1

DRIVE MOTORS: deLacy Spinlonic ZX 14

HULL STRESS FACTOR: C-Holding A20-B4

HYPERSPACE CAPABILITY: No


PYTHON:
One of the larger trading vessels manufactured in Inera Orbit Space
by Whatt and Pritney ShipConstruct. Cabin accommodation is cramped
and spartan in contrast to facilities for cargo and 'alien
environment' transport. Though slow and ponderous, the craft has
powerful CC-Voltaire shields and Volt-Variscan Pulse lasers, earning
it the nickname of the 'space porcupine'. Not commonly attacked by
pirate ships, but a popular craft for freebooters, usually used as a
way-station and storage hulk.

DIMENSIONS: 130/40/80 ft

CARGO CAPACITY: 100 TC

ARMAMENTS: Volt-Variscan
           Pulse Lasers

MAXIMUM VELOCITY: 0.20

INSERVICE DATE: 2700 AD Whatt and Pritney ShipConstruct

MANOEUVRABILITY; CF3

CREW NUMBER: 20-30

DRIVE MOTORS: 4C40k V Ames Drive Exlon 76NN Model

HULL STRESS FACTOR; T(ensman) YO 20 C-Holding K21-31

HYPERSPACE CAPABILITY: Yes


SIDEWINDER SCOUT SHIP:
Designed by Faulcon de Lacy and built in the Onrira Orbital Shipyards
by Spalder and Starblaze Inc to Galactic Navy specifications for a
multi-purpose support craft. Mainly used for atmosphere and planetary
surface scouting, but extensively too for city-strafing,
reconnaissance and infantry air support (and by pirates who favour
speed and elusiveness, its primary advantage). Has some interspatial
capability, not including hyperspace, and must be carried through
hyperspace by jump-capable vessels. Hull is too small for the
installation of fuel scoops, or more than one missile pod.

DIMENSIONS: 35/15/65 ft

CARGO CAPACITY: None

ARMAMENTS: Dual 22-18 lasers
           Seeker missiles

MAXIMUM VELOCITY: 0.37

INSERVICE DATE: 2982 (Onrira Orbital/spalder Starblaze)

MANOEUVRABILITY; CF9

CREW NUMBER: 1

DRIVE MOTORS: deLacy Spin Ionic MV

HULL STRESS FACTOR; Not available, C-Holding C50

HYPERSPACE CAPABILITY: No


THARGOID INVASION SHIP:
The Thargoids are humankind's deadly enemy, and throughout the 8
galaxies there are at least 50 war zones between humanity and
Thargoid. This highly technologically advanced insectoid race is also
at war with 17 other space-going life forms.
All Thargoid combateers are ruthless in combat, and some may be
comparable with elite-status human combat pilots.
Though most of the Thargoid Space Fleet is currently engaged by the
Galactic Navy in InterGalactic Space, a few of the smaller battle
ships make occasional destructor-raids into human space. These ships
are extremely fast for their size and invariably have anti-missile
(ECM) systems.
The Galactic Banks will pay a handsome bounty for the destruction of
a Thargoid invasion ship. Your most dangerous enemy, a Thargoid may -
in addition to its own fire-power-activate remote-controlled
killer-craft ("thargons"). Destroy the 8-sided mother ship, however,
and the thargons will cease to pose a threat.
Additionally, most Thargoid battle ships carry several small,
remote-controlled 'thargons', killer-craft each equipped with a
single, but highly advanced, pulse-laser. The Galactic Navy are
developing their own deep-space RemCraft, and pay a large bounty for
any Thargon craft that are bought to them.
(N.B. Bounty on Thargoid invasion craft destroyed is very high.
Thargoid
battle-cruisers believed to be able to hover' in Witch-Space
(hyperspace) and destroy through-coming craft). Though most of the
Thargoid Space Fleet is currently engaged by the Galactic Navy in
Intergalactic Space, a few of the smaller battle ships make
occasional sorties into Human Space. These ships are extremely fast
for their size and invariably have ECM Systems (this was originally
a Thargoid invention to counter Navy missiles, subsequently copied by
the Navy from captured Thargoid ships).
Additionally, most Thargoid battle ships carry a few small
remote-controlled ships, each equipped with a single pulse laser. It
is rumoured that the Galactic Navy are designing their own
remote-controlled fighter, and will pay well for Thargoid ones to
study.

DIMENSIONS: 180/40/180 ft

ARMAMENTS; Widely varying.
           Mountings available for most systems

MAXIMUM VELOCITY: 0.20 LM

INSERVICE DATE: Uncertain

MANOEUVRABILITY: CF6

CREW NUMBER: 150

DRIVE MOTORS: Thargoid invention

HULL STRESS FACTOR: Uncertain

HYPERSPACE CAPABILITY: Yes


VIPER (POLICE SHIP):
Small, highly manoeuvrable short range 'hunter-killer', the Viper was
specifically designed for GalCop Space Policing purposes by Faulcon
Manspace and are built under licence on all Medium Tech worlds. The
Viper is a single pilot craft, but has a 'tug' capability, and can
tow a ship of up to 140,000 MTS mass (including the Cobra Mk 3).
This popular ship ia also carried by large freighter convoys, for
defensive purposes.

DIMENSIONS: 55/80/50 ft

CARGO CAPACITY: Zero

ARMAMENTS: Ingram MegaBlast Pulse Laser
           Seeker missiles

MAXIMUM VELOCITY: 0.32 LM

INSERVICE DATE: 2762 AD (Faulcon Manspace, Reorte)

MANOEUVRABILITY: High (CF 7.4)

CREW NUMBER: 1 (up to 10)

DRIVE MOTORS: deLacy Super Thrust VC10

HULL STRESS FACTOR: Varies

HYPERSPACE CAPABILITY: No
