                              HEAT WAVE

TYPED IN BY PARANOMIA, EDITED BY PARASITE.


Commodore Amiga Reference Card

About This Card

The manual that came with your game (written for the IBM PC and Tandy
version) will provide you with virtually all the information you need
to play Heat Wave.  However, there are some exceptions and differences
between computer systems, which are noted on this card.

To use this card:  The page numbers below show the location of
information in the manual that won't work with your Amiga.  When you
come to such a section, replace the instructions in the manual with
the corrected version.

Getting Started (page 2)

You should make a backup copy of your Heat Wave disks before you begin
playing.  For instructions on how to do this, check the operating
system manual that came with your computer.

If you have an Amiga floppy drive system:

1 Place your Heat Wave disk in DF0:

2 Turn on your computer, the game will load automatically, and the
  Nautical Examination screen will appear.

3 See the Nautical Examination section to see how to pass the copy
  protection screen.

If you have an Amiga hard drive system:

1 Enter the CLI or SHELL (1MB RAM required to run from hard drive).

2 Type MAKEDIR DH0:HEATWAVE

3 Place your game disk in DF0:

4 Type COPY DF0: to DH0:HEATWAVE ALL

5 To run the game from the hard drive, click on the HeatWave icon.

Main Menu: The Heat Wave Agenda (page 4)

THe interface for Heat Wave is a system of menus, each of which offers
a number of selections.  Use the cursor keys - the Up or Down arrows -
or your joystick or your mouse to move through the menu choices.  Your
current choice is highlighted.  Then press Enter, the fire button, or
the left mouse button, to select it.  A data screen or sub-menu will
appear; follow the same procedure to select options from a sub-menu.

To exit a menu screen without making a selection, you usually press
Esc, but you can also click the right mouse button.  Other keys that
may be of use in a particular menu will be displayed at the bottom of
the menu screen.

Game Options (page 5)

Joystick.  There is no need to calibrate your joystick with the Amiga.

Graphics Mode.  There is no graphics mode option with the Amiga.

Qualification Time Trials (page 13)

In step 1, the manual says to use the left arrow and right arrow keys
on the keypad to steer left and right.  You should use the 4 and 6 keys.

Basic Boat Controls (page 15)

The command information on page 15 for the keypad and joystick are the
same for the Amiga.  (The mouse, by the way, can only be used for
controlling the menus.)  The additional key commands on page 16 are also
the same, except for Adjust trim up which is the 2 key and Adjust trim
down which is the 8 key.

Troubleshooting (page 25)

Disregard everything in this section except the first paragraph.
