




                                 IKARI WARRIORS

     Typed by ???. Edited by Parasite.


     This is basically an upwards scrolling shoot-em-up and is full of sound and
     graphics.  Your character or characters (one or two can play) have crashed
     landed and now must run the gauntlet.

     The view is from above and the graphics are nice.  The enemy, which attacks
     in literally waves is not very smart, but numbers seem to overcome their
     stupidity (for example, they do not shoot you when you are besides or above
     them).

     Moving your character to the middle of the screen makes the computer move
     the screen down 1/3 the way to show more of what's above you.  A good
     technique I have used is to move till the screen shifts and then move back
     down to plan my attack.

     You start with a repeating type rifle that also shoots a grenade if you
     hold down the fire button.  The bullets seem to have a life of only 1/3rd
     of the screen.

     Watch for special areas that light up when destroyed that give you more
     ammunition.  Also don't forget to make use of the occasional tank that you
     may happen upon.  Don't forget to get out of it when it catches fire.

     BACKDOOR TIME:
     When you have a high score, instead of typing your name, type "FREERIDE"
     and press the RETURN key.  Now when you play the game you should be
     invulnurable.

     Bonuses found when you blow up installations or the red suited men:
     K       Smart bomb
     B       High power grenades
     L       Longer range bullet
     S,A     Shorter shot
     F       Faster bullet rate of fire.

     When you enter the first tank, crash into the first pillbox. Immediately
     press the F1 key to end the game.  Restart and do it again, now your tanks
     will have shields.

     Also pressing the space bar allows your man to hide in the folliage on the
     far right and left.  It also fixes the tank barrel and operates as an fixed
     and unfixed toggle.
