                             LASER SQUAD 

Typed in by Stryper/LADS. Edited by Parasite.


INTRODUCTION:
Laser Squad is a one or two player tactical wargame system that accurately 
simulates many aspects of individual level combat.  It will take some time
for a new player to become familiar with all aspects of the system, and we
recommend that you load the program and go through the first section of this
manual which provides you with a basic guide to playing the game.  The second
section should be treated as a reference manual for the experienced players.
Some features of the system are not implemented with the five scenarios
provided with the main program, but the future scenarios will explore the
versatility of game play that Laser Squad can provide.  The final section in
this booklet provides instructions for the five scenarios provided with the
main program.
 
INSTRUCTIONS:

Keys (or Joystick)
Q	Left		(Joystick Left)
A	Right		(Joystick Right)
O	Up		(Joystick Up)
P	Down		(Joystick Down)
SPACE	Select/Fire	(Joystick Fire)

Change Controls
No option is given - KEYBOARD AND JOYSTICK CAN BE USED SIMULTANEOUSLY.

Save Game.
Insert blank formatted disk into internal drive.  Do not use disk for any
other purpose.

PART I:	 PLAYING THE GAME

OVERVIEW
Laser Squad is played in a series of game turns.  Each player, during his 
turn, controls a small number of units which represent humans, droids or
other creatures.  Each unit has its own individual name and characteristics
which affect the abilities of that unit.  At the start of the game turn each
unit is allocated a number of Action Points (or APs) which are used for 
performing all activities of that unit such as movement, combat, manipulating
objects, etc.  Once all action points are used for each unit, or the player
does not wish to use any more, the end turn option is selected and the other
player (or the computer) takes his turn.  The winner of the game is the first
side to accumulate 100 victory points.  Victory points are awarded for 
various things, such as eliminating enemy units or destroying certain
installations, depending on the scenario being played.

GAME SETUP
You will be asked whether you want a one player game or a two player game.
If you select the one player option, the computer will take control of the
second side.  You will then be asked what level you wish to play at.  The 
number of levels varies between scenarios and the higher the level the more
difficult the computer is to beat.  If you are playing with two players then
only the player whose turn it is should be allowed to see the screen.
Each player now selects equipment and deploys his units.

EQUIPMENT SELECTION
In each scenario you are allocated a number of Credits to spend on armour,
weapons and ammunition.  The first thing you must do is select armour for
each unit.  Your units are displayed on the left of the screen, and you 
select armour for each unit in sequence.  Use the UP and DOWN controls to
select the type of armour and press FIRE when you are satisfied with your
choice.  If you select '0' then the unit will have no armour.  If you select
a number from one to four then the unit will be given an armour type 
according to the specifications displayed in the table on the right of the
screen.  A full explanation of armour is included in the reference section.

After you have allocated armour to each unit, you then select equipment.
Initially, the object selector is highlighted.  Use the RIGHT and LEFT 
controls to change the object currently selected.  Each object's unique 
graphics symbol and name is displayed together with the cost of purchasing
the object.  In order to allocate objects to a unit use the UP and DOWN 
controls to highlight the unit that you require and then use RIGHT to add
the currently selected object to that unit's equipment, or LEFT to subtract
the object.  You cannot give an object to a unit if you have insufficient
credits, or if that unit's weight or size limits would be exceeded.  Once
you satisfied with your selection press FIRE twice to continue the game.

All weapons are loaded with ammunition when purchased, but extra ammunition
for each weapon is available.  Consult the weapons table in the reference
section for details on weapons and ammunition.

DEPLOYMENT
Each unit is deployed in turn until all units have been placed on the map.
The deployment mode shows the name and equipment of the unit to be deployed
on the right of the screen and the map window on the left.  Use LEFT,RIGHT,
UP and DOWN to move the flashing white cursor around the map until you have 
found the deployment square you want.  Each scenario will specify which 
spaces you can deploy on.  Place the cursor over the deployment square and
press FIRE to deploy the units.

GAME-OPTIONS
Before each game turn starts you will be presented with a menu which allows
you to save and load games.  Press the number of the option you require or
press fire to continue with the game.

SAVE GAME	Allows you to save the current game to tape/disk. 

LOAD GAME	If you select this option then the current game is abandoned
in order to load a new game.  You will be presented with the same menu that
appears when the main program is first loaded.

CURSOR MODE
At any time the game is in one of three different modes: cursor mode, select
mode, or fire mode.  Each game starts in cursor mode which simply allows you
to move the cursor around the map using the normal Joystick directions. The
display on the right of the screen shows information about the map space 
under the cursor as follows:

MAP:		The name of the terrain feature such as grass, floor, wall,
etc.

OBJECT:		The name of any object on the ground.

UNIT:		The name of any unit under the cursor.

OBJECT IN USE:	The object that the unit is currently using, if any.

CURSOR MODE OPTIONS
Laser Squad is controlled via a series of menus which are simply lists of
different options available to you at any time.  To display a menu, which 
ever mode you are in, press FIRE.  Use UP and DOWN to highlight the option 
of your choice and press FIRE to select the option.  The options that can be
available in cursor mode are as follows.

SELECT:		If the cursor is placed over one of your units with APs
		remaining then you will be able to select that unit for
		movement and other actions.  Once you select this option,
		you will enter selection mode.
INFO:		If the cursor is placed over any unit then information on
		that unit can be displayed.
NEXT UNIT:	This option simply moves the cursor to another friendly unit
		with APs remaining.
SCANNER:	A strategic map of the entire playing area can be displayed
		showing the positions of all your units and any enemy units
		that are curently spotted.
CANCEL:		The cancel option in each menu just clears the menu and 
		returns you to the current mode.

SELECT MODE:In Select Mode the message display on the right of the screen shows essential
information about the unit you have selected (see piccy 1). Most important is
the number of Action Points remaining and the direction indicator which shows
which direction the unit is facing.  Once you have selected a unit then the 
directional controls are used to move the unit as follows:

LEFT:		Rotate unit left
RIGHT:		Rotate unit right
UP:		Move unit forwards in the direction that it is facing
DOWN:		Move unit backwards

MOVEMENT:
Moving a unit will always cost Action Points, depending on the terrain that
is being moved over.  Moving diagonally will cost an extra two APs and 
rotating a unit 45 degrees costs one AP.  If you attempt to move into 
impassable terrain the unit will attack the terrain and possibly destroy it.

You are allowed to move the selected unit over friendly units but you can 
never end movement on top of a friendly unit.  The only options available to
a unit on top of another are to continue moving or to select the END MOVE 
option from the menu.  If you select the END MOVE option then the unit will
be placed on the last empty space that it occupied.

CLOSE COMBAT
In order to engage in close combat simply move your unit into an enemy unit.
The close combat display on the right will show you what weapon the unit is
using (if any), the accuracy (% chance to hit), the AP cost, the damage and
the hit location.

LINE OF SIGHT
Laser Squad uses a hidden movement system which means that enemy units will
not appear on the map unless they are in the field of vision of one of your
units.  A unit's field of vision extends 45 degrees from the front.  Various
types of terrain such as walls or doors will block line of sight.  You will
not see an enemy until it is clearly in view.

SELECT MODE OPTIONS:
When you press FIRE in select mode, you will have a variety of menu options
depending on the circumstances of the unit.  Most of these options cost APs
based on a percentage of the units Action Point Allowance.  For example if a
unit is allocated 50 APs at the beginning of the turn then changing an object
costs 20% of its AP allowance which is 10 APs.  Actions cannot be carried out
if the unit has insufficient APs (although the option is still included in
the menu list).

The following menu options are available in select mode:

END MOVE	Ends the selection of the unit and returns to cursor mode.
		The unit can still be re-selected provided it still has APs
		remaining.
FIRE		If the unit has an object in use then it can be fired or 
		thrown.  Selecting this option changes the display to fire
		mode.
CHANGE		If the unit is carrying one or more objects then this option
		is used to select an object for use or to change the object
		in use. The unit's objects are displayed on the screen with
		the ammunition amount, weight and size of each object. The 
		white pointer on the left shows which object is currently in
		use, if any.  Use the UP and DOWN controls to move the 
		pointer to the object you want to use and press FIRE to 
		change object.  Performing this action costs 25% of the units
		Action Point allowance.
PICK UP		If the unit is standing on a space with one or more objects
		on the floor then they can be picked up.  This option 
		displays all the objects in the space in a similar manner to
		the change object display.  Use the UP and DOWN controls to 
		move the pointer to the object you want to pick up and press
		FIRE to implement the action.  If you don't want to pick up
		any objects move the pointer to CANCEL and press fire.  This
		option costs 50% if the unit has an object in use or 25% if 
		it does not.
DROP		If the unit has an object in use then it can be dropped 
		costing 10% of its AP allowance.  It is possible to hide an
		object that is dropped, depending on the size of the object
		and the capacity of the terrain the unit is standing on. For
		example you can hide a grenade in a plant pot but not a 
		rifle.  You cannot hide anything on a floor space but you can
		hide most things under a bed.  If it is possible to hide the
		dropped object then a small menu is displayed asking you 
		whether you wish to hide the object or not.
LOAD		If the unit has a ranged combat weapon in use and it is also
		carrying the appropriate ammunition for that weapon then it
		can be loaded with new ammunition costing 50% of the unit's
		AP allowance.
PRIME		If the unit has a grenade in use which is not primed then it
		can be primed at a cost of 20%.  Use the UP and DOWN controls
		to alter the timer and press FIRE to prime the grenade. The
		value of the timer determines when the grenade explodes.  If
		the timer is set to 0 then it will explode at the end of your
		turn.  If it is set to 1 then it will go off at the end of 
		your opponent's turn, and if it is set to 2 then it will go
		off at the end of your next turn, and so on.
OPEN		If the unit is facing towards a closed, unlocked door then it
		can be opened.  The cost is 20% of AP allowance.
CLOSE		If the unit is facing towards an opened door it can be 
		closed.  The cost is 20% of AP allowance.
UNLOCK		If the unit is facing towards a locked door and it is using
		the correct key then the door can be unlocked.  The cost is 
		25% of AP allowance.
LOCK		If the unit is facing towards an unlocked door and it is
		using the correct key then the door can be locked.  The cost
		is 25% of AP allowance.
SCANNER		The strategic map can be displayed with no AP cost.
CANCEL		Clear menu and return to movement.

FIRE MODE
When you select the fire option the main display will change from a 
perspective map to a line of fire map which shows all the terrain that blocks
shooting or throwing.  All units are replaced with a blob depicting the 
target area of each unit.  The square cursor is replaced by a flashing
cross-hair cursor for targeting shots.  The information display on the right
shows the weapon being used and the essential information for ranged combat
(see piccy 2).  In order to fire a weapon, move the cross-hair cursor to the
desired target point, press FIRE to display the fire mode menu and select
the type of shot you require.  You will not be able to fire a shot if the
cursor is outside the unit's field of vision.

FIRE MODE OPTIONS
Only ranged combat weapons will have the three fire options for automatic 
fire, snap shots, and aimed shots.  Some weapons are unable to do automatic
fire.  If the unit is using any other object then only the throw option will
be available.

The following options are available in fire mode:

AUTO		Automatic fire is a burst of continuous fire between two
		specified points.  A minimum of three shots must be fired
		and the unit must have enough APs for at least three auto-
		shots in order to select this option.  Once you have 
		selected automatic fire, you must select a second target 
		point within the unit's field of vision. Press FIRE when you
		have moved the cursor to the desired point.  You will then
		be asked to select the number of shots you wish to fire from
		three up to the maximum allowed by the unit's Action Points.
		Use the UP and DOWN controls to change the number of shots
		and press FIRE to execute the shots.
SNAP		A snap shot is a single shot, but is more accurate than 
		automatic fire.
AIM		An aimed shot is the most accurate type of shot but requires
		the most Action Points.
THROW		Any object can be thrown up to a distance determined by the
		unit's strength, divided by the object's weight.  An object
		will never be thrown further than the cursor which allows
		for fairly accurate placing of objects.  The accuracy of
		throwing is equivalent to the unit's agility rating and the
		cost is 20% of the unit's AP allowance.  If a thrown object
		hits another unit then the object can be caught provided the
		unit is facing the thrower and has no object currently in 
		use.  If the object is not caught then it will fall at the
		unit's feet.
INFO		If the cursor is over a unit then information on that unit
		can be displayed.
END FIRE	Ends fire mode and returns to select mode.
CANCEL		Clears menu.

OPPORTUNITY FIRE
Opportunity fire is an essential feature of the tactics employed in Laser
Squad.  If a unit is left with at least half its Action Point Allowance at 
the end of the game turn then it will be triggered when an enemy unit moves
into the field of vision of your unit.  Control will switch to you in fire 
mode which allows you to shoot the enemy unit.  Once you select the END FIRE
option then your opponent can continue with his turn.

PART TWO:  REFERENCE GUIDE

UNIT CHARACTERISTICS
Each unit has a unique set of attributes which affect the game in various
ways.

MORALE VALUE	Each unit's morale value represents the value of the unit to
		the rest of its squad.  If the unit is eliminated then the
		morale of all units on its side will decrease by an amount
		equal to its morale value and all enemy units morale will
		increase by the same value.

MOVEMENT TYPE	Different types of unit have different AP costs for certain
		types of terrain.  For example, the droids in scenario one
		are unable to trample over the household furniture.

ACTION POINT	This represents the number of Action Points that the unit is
ALLOWANCE	allocated at the start of each turn.  However, a unit's 
		initial AP allowance is modified by a number of factors. The
		weight of the unit's armour and the unit's burden are both
		subtracted from this value.

CONSTITUTION	A unit's constitution is the amount of damage it can take
		before it is eliminated.

WOUNDS		If a unit's constitution is reduced then the unit will 
		receive a number of wounds which are subtracted from the
		unit's Action Points at the start of each turn.

WOUND RATE	The wound rate is the number of constitution points lost
		needed to generate one wound.
		
STAMINA		This value represents the physical fitness, or energy, of 
		the unit.  If a unit spends more than half its APs on
		energetic tasks like movement then stamina will be reduced.
		Unused APs will help recover stamina.  If stamina reaches 
		such a low level that the unit is feeble then it will only
		receive half its AP allowance at the start of each turn 
		until stamina is recovered through rest.

MORALE		A unit's morale is adversely affected if friendly units are 
		eliminated or if a unit is wounded.  Morale will increase
		(but not beyond initial morale) if enemy units are destroyed.
		If a unit becomes panicked then it may drop objects that it
		is using.  The morale of droids is never reduced.

WEAPON SKILL	This value affects ranged combat only.  Combined with the
		skill factor of a weapon the accuracy of firing can be
		increased.

STRENGTH	The weight of objects that can be carried is determined by
		a unit's strength.  In close combat, strength can increase
		the damage done by a weapon.

AGILITY		The accuracy of throwing depends on a unit's agility.  The
		accuracy of hitting in close combat is affected by the
		attacking unit's agility and the defending unit's agility.

UNARMED COMBAT	This represents the unit's innate ability at close combat
		without using any weapon.

BURDEN		A unit's burden is subtracted from its AP allowance. The
		burden value is calculated according to the strength of the
		unit and the total weight of all objects carried.

ARMOUR		Each unit has an armour rating fro its front side, left side,
		right side, and rear.  The unit's directional facing and the
		source of each shot is used to calculate which armour rating
		is used in combat calculations.  Armour can be damaged if a
		damage value from a shot or hit is greater than the armour 
		rating.	A unit's constitution will only be affected by a 
		damage value which is greater than the armour value.

VICTORY POINTS	A unit's victory point value is added to the enemies total
		victory points when the unit is eliminated.

WEAPONS AND OBJECTS
There are three basic categories of objects in Laser Squad: weapons,
ammunition, and other objects. There are three types of weapon, close combat
weapons, ranged weapons, and grenade type weapons. Most ranged weapons can
be used in close combat. Objects can have some or all of the following 
characteristics.

WEIGHT		All objects have a weight value.

SIZE		All objects have a size value.  Units are limited in the 
		total size of objects that they can carry depending on the 
		type of armour worn. When there is more than one object in a
		space then the largest object is displayed on the map.

CONSTITUTION	All objects have a constitution value which represents the 
		damage factor needed to destroy the object.

ACTION POINT	When an object is on the ground there can be an AP cost for
COST		moving onto it, in addition to the AP cost for terrain.


CLOSE COMBAT	The percentage of APs required to use the weapon in close
COST		combat.

CLOSE COMBAT	The basic chance of hitting with the weapon. This is 
ACCURACY	modified by a number of factors in close combat.

CLOSE COMBAT	The average amount of damage points inflicted by the weapon
DAMAGE		in close combat.

CLOSE COMBAT	The percentage of a unit's strength that is added to damage
STRENGTH BONUS	in close combat.

CLOSE COMBAT	The percentage of a unit's agility that is added to the
AGILITY BONUS	accuracy in close combat.

AUTOMATIC FIRE	The percentage of a unit's action point allowance used for
AP COST		a single automatic shot.

AUTOMATIC FIRE	The percentage chance of being on target.
ACCURACY	

SNAP SHOT	The percentage of unit's action point allowance used for a
AP COST		single snap shot.

SNAP SHOT	The percentage chance of being on target with a snap shot.
ACCURACY	

AIMED SHOT	The percentage of unit's action point allowance used for
AP COST		one aimed shot.

AIMED SHOT	The percentage chance of being on target with an aimed shot.
ACURACY		

SKILL FACTOR	This value determines how much of a unit's weapon skill is
		added to accuracy in ranged combat.

RANGED COMBAT	The average amount of damage inflicted by the weapon in
DAMAGE		ranged combat. If the weapon has explosive ammunition or if
		the weapon is a grenade type, then this value represents
		explosive power.
	
AMMUNITION	The type of ammunition that is used if the object is a 
		ranged combat weapon.

CLOSE COMBAT CALCULATIONS
The accuracy of close combat is determined by the sum of the following
factors:

1.	The basic close combat accuracy of the weapon.
	Add the agility factor determined by the weapons agility bonus and
	the attacking unit's agility.
3.	Subtract all the enemy unit's agility if it is being attacked from
	the front.
4.	Subtract half the enemy unit's agility if it is being attacked from
	the side.
5.	Subtract a quarter of the enemy unit's agility if it is being 
	attacked from the rear.

The damage in close combat is determined by the sum of the following factors:

1.	The basic close combat damage by the weapon.
2.	Add the strength factor determined by the weapons strength bonus and
	the attacking unit's strength.
3.	Add a random factor which modifies the damage value calculated so 
	far between 50% and 150%.
4.	Subtract the defending unit's armour rating for the side in which it
	is hit.
5.	Subtract the protection value of the terrain occupied by the 
	defending unit.

RANGED COMBAT CALCULATIONS
The accuracy of ranged combat is determined by the sum of the following
factors:

1.	The basic  accuracy of the weapon depending on the type of shot.
2.	If the shot is a snap shot then add the skill bonus determined by
	the weapons skill and the firing units weapon skill.
3.	If the shot is an automatic shot then only add half the calculated
	skill bonus.
4.	If the shot is an aimed shot then add double the calculated skill
	bonus.

Ranged combat damage is determined by the sum of the following values:

1.	The ranged combat damage value of the weapon.
2.	Add a random factor which results in a damage amount between 50% and
	150% of the initial damage value.
3.	Subtract the target unit's armour rating for the side in which it is
	hit.
4.	Subtract the protection rating of the terrain occupied by the target
	unit.

WEAPON TABLE:
		   						      R
		   						      A  
		   		 C        C        A     S     A      N  
		   		 L  C  C  C  C  A  U  S  N  A  I      G  
		                 O  L  L     C  U  T  N  A  I  M      E  
		   	      A  S  O  O  S     T  O  A  P  M            A
		   	      P  E  S  S  T  A  O  S  P  S     S      C  M
		   	   C        E  E  R  G  S  H  S  H  S  H  S   O  M
		   	   O  C  C   	  E  I  H  O  H  O  H  O  K   M  U
		   	   N  O  O  C  C  N  L  O  T  O  T  O  T  I   B  N
		   	   S  S  M  O  O  G  I  T     T     T     L   A  I
		   	   T  T  B  M  M  T  T     A     A     A  L   T  T
		           I     A  B  B  H  Y  A  C  A  C  A  C         I
		   | W     T  I  T  A  A        P  C  P  C  P  C  F   D  O
		   | E     U  N     T  T  B  B     U     U     U  A   A  N
		   | I  S  T  	 C        O  O  C  R  C  R  C  R  C   M  
      WEAPON	   | G  I  I  M	 O  A  D  N  N  O  A  O  A  O  A  T   A  C
      /\/\/\	   | H  Z  O  A	 S  C  A  U  U  S  C  S  C  S  C  O   G  A
	 	   | T  E  N  P	 T  C  M  S  S  T  Y  T  Y  T  Y  R   E  P
  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
		   |
   M4000 AUTO-GUN  |10 12 106 2 25 40  8 20 10  3  5 25 16 50 40  8  46 20
   MARSEC AUTOGUN  |12 14 116 2 25 38 10 20  9  6  5 25 18 50 45  8  58 20
   SNIPER RIFLE	   | 7  8  98 1 20 52  8 20 13 -- -- 33 26 67 56 13  52 12
   MARSEC PISTOL   | 6  4 100 0 20 50  6 17 17 -- -- 13 10 25 22  7  40  8
   L50 LAS-GUN	   |16 14 120 2 33 34 10 17 10  5  4 20 12 50 24  5  30 40
   HEAVY LASER	   |28 34 126 3 50 24 11 17  7  3  3 17 10 33 16  6  45 50
   ROCKET LAUNCHER |12 22  86 3 50 26  9 14  8 -- -- 33 10 67 18  5 160  1
   DAGGER	   | 1  2  60 0 17 58 20 13 33 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --- --
   AP50 GRENADE	   | 2  2  60 0 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --  90 --
   EXPLOSIVE	   |15  8  80 0 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --  70 --
   M50 AUTO PISTOL | 5  4 103 0 25 26  5 25 13 10  3 20 12 50 30  5  42 12
   L80 LAS-GUN	   |14 18 112 2 25 30  8 17  8 -- -- 25 28 50 64  4  48 10 
   PUMP SHOT GUN   | 9  9 106 0 25 40  8 20 14 -- -- 25 16 50 38  7  64  6
   MS AUTOCANNON   |26 30 120 3 33 26 11 17  7 13  8 25 20 50 40  7  78 12
   MK-1		   |14 12 136 1 25 36  8 17 13  8 12 33 24 33 57 10  53 30
   AP75 GRENADE	   | 4  3 130 0 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 160 --
   LIGHT SABRE	   | 5  4 180 0 20 46 84 17 33 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --- --
		   |
  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++