




                                     METRO

     Typed in by ???. Edited by Parasite.


     INTRODUCTION
          In METRO, you play the role of a city planner. Using limited funds, you
     must construct a mass-transit subway system capable of meeting the needs of
     your city. Build wisely and your system will be a success, but poor planning
     will lead to disaster and financial ruin.

     HOW TO START THE GAME
          METRO has a custom font which must be installed on your Workbench disk.
     Double-click on the INSTALL FONT icon to copy the font to the FONTS:
     directory on your Workbench disk. *NEVER* use your original Workbench disk!
     This font installation procedure need only be done once, similar to
     installing Amiga BASIC on your JUMPDISK magazine disk.
          Double-click on the METRO icon. When the title sequence is complete,
     you can click either mouse button to begin play.

     THE MAIN DISPLAY

     Districts
          The city is divided into 79 "districts" shown as squares on the left
     side of the screen. Each district is rated for the following
     characteristics: population, employment, jobs, roads, prosperity, parking,
     riders and busing. These characteristics will vary from game to game and
     will change slightly during the game to represent demographic shifts. They
     are fully explained below, under the "Info" menu.

     View/Estimate/Build Gadgets
          These gadgets are located on the upper right of the screen. Only one of
     these gadgets can be activated at any time. They determine what happens when
     you click the left mouse button on a district.
          -- The View gadget (Eye) shows the characteristics of the current
     district at the bottom of the screen.
          -- The Estimate gadget (Dollar Bill) shows the estimate cost of
     building a train line segment between two districts. Click on one district,
     then on an adjacent district, and the cost of joining the two districts will
     be shown in a window. Each estimate costs a small amount of money.
          -- The Build gadget (Bulldozer) actually builds a train line segment
     between two districts. As with the Estimate gadget, you must click on two
     adjacent districts to build the line.

     Train Color Gadgets
          These are located beneath the View/Estimate/Build gadgets. They
     determine the color of the line segment that you are estimating or building.
     Only one of these gadgets may be selected at a time.

     Color Scale
          The Color Scale is located beneath the Train Color gadgets and is used
     in conjunction with the items in the Info Menu (see below) to show a single
     characteristic of all the districts in the city at once.

     Budget
          Your budget is located at the bottom right of the screen. Your money
     will diminish as you get building estimates, construct train lines and buy
     trains. It will grow (maybe!) when you are finished with your turn and the








     computer calculates the number of people who ride your system.

     Menus
          The Game Menu contains various game-related functions:
          -- Choose "End Turn" when you are finished for the turn. The computer
     will calculate the number of riders on your system, show any events that
     happen and go on to the next turn.
          -- Choose "New Game" to start over again.
          -- Choose "Quit Game" to leave METRO and return to the Workbench.
     -- Choose "About" to see some information about METRO.

          The Info Menu contains informational items you must consult to do well
     in METRO.
          -- Choose "Population" to see the total number of people in each
     district. The more people there are in a district, the more riders you will
     have on any lines running into or through the district.
          -- Choose "Jobs" to see the number of jobs available in each district.
     The more jobs there are in districts served by your Metro lines, the more
     people will ride your system.
          -- Choose "Employment" to see the employment rate for each district.
     The higher the employment rate, the more riders you will have.
          -- Choose "Prosperity" to see the average per-capita income of each
     district. The closer a district is to median income, the more riders from
     the district you will get. Prosperity also affects property costs in the
     district; parking and building costs will tend to be higher in districts
     with high prosperity.
          -- Choose "Roads" to see the city's road net. Each district is assigned
     a percentage value. Higher values mean the district's roads are in good
     shape and adequate to meet the district's traffic needs. So your Metro lines
     won't do so well in those districts.
          -- Choose "Busing" to see Bus Service availability in each district.
     You can start busing service by using the Action Menu (see below). Buses can
     carry people to neighboring districts, increasing ridership on train lines
     in those districts.
          -- Choose "Riders" to see how many people rode your train system from
     each district in the last turn.
          -- Choose "Events" to run through the events that happened last turn.
          -- Choose one of the "History" graphs to see how you are doing. They
     show how many people are riding your trains from the city, and how many
     people from districts that have train lines through them are taking
     advantage of your service.

     ACTION MENU
          The Action Menu contains various items on which you can spend money to
     improve the profitability and size of your system:
          -- Choose "Trainyards" to access the trainyards display. See "The
     Trainyards Display" below for further instructions.
          -- Choose "Busing" to add busing to the current district.
          -- Choose "Parking" to add parking spaces to the current district.
     Sub-items allow you to choose five preset amounts of parking, or choose "Buy
     Spaces" to bring up a requester, allowing you to buy what you need. Without
     sufficient parking spaces, people will not ride your system.
          -- Choose "Advertising" to buy advertising (commercials, billboards,
     etc.) to help influence people to ride. Advertising is preset to $500,000
     per turn at the beginning of the game. You can adjust this, of course.

     THE TRAINYARDS DISPLAY
          The Trainyards window is where you can buy trains, allocate them to








     your lines, set fares, and budget money for maintenance. Your budget is
     displayed in the upper right corner of the screen. If you click and hold the
     left mouse button on any of the gadgets in Trainyards, it will repeat the
     action and save wear and tear on your mouse and your finger.

     Lines
          The large colored bars show important information about that color
     train line: the number of trains running on the line, the number of segments
     in the line, and the number of people who rode that line last turn. Use the
     up and down arrow gadgets to transfer trains between the Reserve (see below)
     and your lines.

     Reserve
          The train Reserve is shown in the lower left corner of the screen.
     Click in the Reserve box to buy new trains for the reserve. You should
     always try to have some backup trains to cover wear and tear during the
     course of a turn.

     Fares
          The "Fare Cost" box shows the average fare for a person using your
     Metro system. Use the up and down arrow gadgets to raise and lower the fare.

     Maintenance
          This area is for the amount of money you wish to spend per segment of
     your train system for upkeep, cleaning, maintenance and the like. Use the up
     and down arrow gadgets to raise or lower this amount. People are much more
     likely to want to ride clean trains, but maintenance can really eat into
     your budget.

     Leaving the Trainyards
          You can click either the "CANCEL" or "OK" gadgets to return to the main
     screen. "OK" ratifies any changes you made in the Trainyards window, while
     "CANCEL" nullifies and changes that you made.

     HOW TO PLAY A TURN (THE EASY RULES)
          This section contains an outline of what happens each turn, together
     with some pointers on playing the game well. See the next section for a more
     detailed look at the evaluation algorithm used to determine how many riders
     will use your system.
          First, survey the city. Choose the items from the "Info" menu to get an
     overall feel for where things are. Remember, to get the most income, you
     need to connect highly populated areas to areas with many jobs. Don't
     compete with the highways, and remember that prosperous areas are always
     expensive to develop. Too, people who don't have jobs won't find your train
     system as useful as people who have to commute every day.
          Find a couple likely-looking districts, click on the "Build" gadget,
     and then two districts to build a line. Remember, you can always use the
     "Estimate" gadget to find out ahead of time how much a line will cost. Your
     train lines are shown as colored lines on the screen, joined by square
     stations. If two different colored lines meet, a Metro Center will be
     constructed automatically for you, allowing transfers from one line to the
     other.
          From the "Actions" menu, allocate money for parking and busing as
     desired. People won't use your system if it's not convenient. They also
     won't use it if they don't know about it, so you may want to set aside some
     money for advertising. Select "Trainyards," click on the train gadget to buy
     some trains, and allocate some trains to your new line. It's a good idea to
     have backups, but the more trains you have per segment of line, the more








     riders you can accommodate. Set fares as high as your dare and maintenance
     spending as low as you dare. You will definitely want to charge and spend
     more than the minimum. Click "OK".
          Take a deep breath and choose "End Turn" from the "Game" menu. The
     computer will determine how many riders you attracted. The government will
     subsidize you. Random events may happen. You may have problem areas in your
     system reported to you.
          Your new budget will be displayed in the lower right hand corner. How
     did you do?

     HOW TO PLAY A TURN (THE HARD RULES)
          This section goes into more detail about the game rules and the
     evaluation algorithm. It's not necessary to read this section, but you'll
     probably score better if you do.

     Estimating Line Costs
          Each segment of a line costs a certain base amount of money. Building
     stations and/or Metro Centers will increase the estimated cost. Metro
     Centers are much more expensive than ordinary stations. The total base cost
     is then modified by the prosperity of the target districts to arrive at a
     total cost.

     Building Lines
          Train line segments can join any adjacent districts not already
     connected. This rule should be understood throughout the rest of this
     section.
          You are always considered to be working with the currently selected
     Train Color gadget's line. The following rules summarize the only legal
     placement for a new segment of the current line:
          -- If no segments exist, you can build that line between any districts.
          -- If the line already has at least one segment, then you can only
     extend the ends of the line.
          -- Lines cannot cross themselves. I.e. you can't make a figure '6'.
     Different colored lines are allowed to cross, in which case a Metro Center
     is automatically constructed.
          -- You can join the ends of a line to form a loop, but you cannot build
     any more on that line, since there are no ends to extend.
          -- Any district that has a line segment must have a station, unless it
     has or will have a Metro Center. These will be constructed automatically for
     you.
          -- Stations and Metro Centers are always accounted for in the estimate
     and building costs for a line segment.

     The Evaluation Algorithm
          This section provides a generalized description of how the total number
     of riders is computed.
          First, total (citywide) jobs are compared with the job total in
     districts served by your system. The greater the percentage, the more riders
     you will attract. You will only get riders from districts with train lines
     or busing service.
          This percentage is used in conjunction with the employment and
     population ratings of each district to determine the base number of riders
     for each district. You will get the most riders by constructing lines
     through both high-population and high-jobs areas. Separate lines do not
     "help" one another unless they are joined by one or more Metro Centers.
          The base number is then modified by the prosperity of the district.
     Really rich people won't use the Metro, and really poor people won't be able
     to afford it, unless your fare is low . . .








          Parking is looked at next. Populous areas that might produce a lot of
     riders are penalized if enough parking is not available.
          Roads are then examined. The better the roads in the districts you are
     serving, the fewer the people who will see the advantages of paying money to
     ride your train system.
          Following roads is busing. Districts with busing but no lines can
     "export" riders to adjacent districts with lines.
          Next, the remaining riders are compared with the capacity of the line.
     Too few trains on a line will result in crowded conditions, discouraging
     people from riding.
          The number of riders still with you is adjusted by the fares you are
     charging. High fares will earn you the most money, of course, but may turn
     away those that might otherwise ride your system. On the other hand, a fare
     that's too low might mean that you'll lose money.
          Maintenance is evaluated next. Well-kept, clean trains will attract
     some riders who might otherwise be disinterested, while poorly maintained
     trains will certainly scare away some riders.
          The last factor affecting your riders is advertising. Since this
     affects the entire city, it can raise overall riding levels.
          Once the total number of riders is determined, the computer takes your
     fare and computes your new budget. To this is added the year subsidy from
     the city government, and then maintenance costs are subtracted. The final
     figure is the money that you have available to spend next turn.
          The money budgeted to you by the government is reported to you via a
     requester. There will possibly be other events as well: strikes, fires, new
     construction and the like. If you are doing particularly well or having
     difficulties, that may show up too! You can always review last turn's events
     by the "Info" menu's "Review Events" item.

     HOW TO END THE GAME
          The are four ways to end the game:
          -- Choose the "Quit Game" item from the "Game" menu. Quitters never
     win.
          -- Choose the "New Game" item from the "Game" menu. Ditto, but at least
     you can try again.
          -- Going bankrupt. The computer will put you out of your misery if your
     treasury goes below zero.
          -- Time Limit. If you make it for 15 turns without going bankrupt, the
     computer will show you how well you did and give you a rating.
