




                                     POPMAN

     Typed in by ???. Edited by Parasite.


     NB: The disk MUST be WRITE-ENABLED or the progam may hang with a
         blank screen when attempting to save to the disk!!

     INTRODUCTION
         POPMAN is a fast-paced action game for the AMIGA computer. It
     offers 65 pre-defined games and the ability to design your own
     games, and will provide many months of enjoyable play. Dedicated
     to all Lode Runner fans everywhere!

         Before you do anything else, MAKE A BACKUP OF THE DISK and put
     the original away for safe keeping. All play should be done
     on a copy of the original without the write-protect tab set, as
     POPMAN frequently writes data to the disk. Throughout this manual
     "playing disk" will refer to a copy of the original disk.

     HOW TO PLAY
         You control a small man whose job is to pop all the balloons on
     the level. You may move in all four directions by walking along
     floors, climbing ladders, falling, and moving hand-over-hand along
     rails. The floors are composed of bricks and cement blocks. You may
     use your digging gun to blast away bricks when it is convenient. They
     will be removed for a short time, and you will be able to get at
     balloons which are buried. Cement blocks are permanent and may not
     be blasted away.

         Once you have popped all the balloons on the level, exit
     ladders may appear and you will be able to leave by going to the top
     of the level. You will then be transported to a new level, and
     you will be given another life.

         To make play more difficult, there are enemies on most levels
     whose job is to prevent you from popping the balloons. If an enemy
     touches you, you will lose a life---so avoid them! Enemies may
     move just like you can, but they are unable to dig through bricks.
     Enemies may become trapped in a place where you are quite able to
     escape from with your gun.

         Enemies cannot fall through dug bricks-- they become caught in
     them for a while. You may then walk over them. If a brick
     solidifies with an enemy in it he will be killed, and another
     will drop from the top of the level to replace him. It is
     safe to walk along on top of a moving enemy; he will be unable to
     reach up and grab you.

         You also may be killed by a brick that solidifies with you in
     it. Whenever you lose a life, the level is reset and you must start
     over, if you still have more lives. When your last man is
     killed, the game is over.

         Enemies often pick up balloons in an attempt to prevent you from
     popping them. They will become tired of carrying them after a
     while and will drop them. If an enemy is killed carrying a
     balloon, it is popped for you and you don't have to worry about it








     anymore. Also if an enemy falls down from within a blasted brick,
     his balloon will be popped.

         Enemies are a mixed blessing. Sometimes you must trick them into
     doing your work for you, and other times they are a potent danger
     that serves only to hinder your efforts.

     MODES OF OPERATION

     DEMO MODE
         POPMAN starts out in DEMO mode, where you see a game in
     progress. There are these tiles on the right side: "GO!", "ED"
     and "BYE". Clicking on "GO!" (or pressing G) will begin a game.
     The "ED" tile (or pressing E) takes you to edit mode where you
     may create and experiment with your own levels. Bye returns you
     to the CLI.

     PLAY MODE
         These tiles are available: "KILL", "MAN", "LVL", "UP" and
     "EXIT". "KILL" kills the current man. Sometimes you will be trapped
     in a situation where you are alive yet unable to escape or kill
     yourself, and "KILL" kills this man for you. "MAN" gives you an
     extra man, if play gets too hard and you want to continue. "LVL"
     allows you to continue play at a specific level, and "UP" skips to
     the next level. "EXIT" aborts the current game and POPMAN will
     return to DEMO mode. Click these tiles with the mouse, or use the
     keyboard and type the first letter of each command. Eg: "L" for level.
     Type H to view the current High Scores. These scores are automatically
     saved onto the disk in DF0.

     EDIT MODE
         POPMAN is a versatile game. You are not limited to the 65 levels
     which came with it; you may create your own. EDIT mode allows you to
     make and try levels. You may save and load levels from your playing
     disk, although there is a chance you might write over the original
     levels. It is a good idea to create a special disk for your
     personal levels by copying POPMAN to it and creating a directory
     "LEVELS".

         In EDIT mode you will see all the types of blocks on the left of
     the screen. You may pick which type you are working with by
     clicking on one of them. You may then modify the level with the
     mouse.

         These tiles are available in EDIT mode: "TRY","UP", "LD", "SV",
     "CLR", and "EXIT". "TRY" allows you to play-test a level. "LD" and
     "SV" will load and save to arbitrary levels. "CLR" will fill
     the level with the current type of tile. "UP" will load the next higher
     level than the last one loaded or saved. "EXIT" exits back to DEMO
     mode.

         When creating levels, some guidelines must be followed. You
     may not have more than five enemies on any level. You may only have
     one player. On the top line of the level you must have at least one
     empty square, to allow enemies to appear. Make sure the level can be
     finished by play-testing it. You must also have a ladder to exit to
     the next level.









     KEYBOARD AND CONTROLS
         You may use keyboard keys to have the same effect as tile
     operations. Within any mode, typing the first letter of any of
     the tiles will do that tile's function. For example, hitting 'M'
     in PLAY mode gives you a life, 'E' in DEMO mode causes POPMAN to
     enter EDIT mode, and so on. In EDIT mode the numeric keys will
     select the square type you are working with. This is very
     convenient, as you will not have to move the mouse back and forth
     and waste time. The mapping is as follows:
        ~       Empty
        1       Diggable brick
        2       Cement brick
        3       Ladder
        4       Rail
        5       Fake brick  (white bricks)
        6       Exit ladder (white ladder)
        7       Balloon
        8       Enemy
        9       Our hero, you
        0       Hidden monster. Try to use either three or none of these.
                (They are symbolised by bricks with a white question mark).
        -       Flashing balloon. Try to use either three or none of these.
                (A flashing balloon has the small star on it).

     Also one more point: hitting 'K' in any play mode, including DEMO
     mode, will abort the life.

       Control is gained via the joystick in the right-hand port.
     Since the joysticks only have one button, digging is done in
     the last direction your man moved. Another way to dig is by
     using the numeric keyboard. Infact, the best combination is to
     dig using the left hand on numeric keys 7 & 9, and the right hand
     controlling movement with the stick. Joystick technique is also
     important! Move the stick to the right to move right BUT centre
     the stick BEFORE moving it up to climb a ladder, etc.

     SCORING
        Entrap/kill            -250
        Balloon                100,200,400
        Complete level         1500
        Hidden monster's hat   4000
        Flashing balloon       8000
        No killing             10000
        No entrapping          20000

     ADVANCED TOPICS
         POPMAN records the last play of any level in PLAY mode. In DEMO
     mode, these recordings are played back, so you may view your
     performances. By pressing 'L' in DEMO mode, you can select which
     level to demo. Currently you may select only levels one to three to demo.
     'K' will simply kill the man and go on to the next level. This is an
     excellent way of understanding the game and its strategy!

      The recordings are placed in the levels directory. They consist
     of the level number followed by an 'M'. Levels are the level number
     followed by an 'L'.

         You may run POPMAN off any disk, even the RAM: disk. You must








     copy POPMAN and POPMAN.info to the device. You must also make
     LEVELS and DATA directories, and copy the DATA files from the original
     disk.

         The DATA directory contains files that POPMAN needs for execution.
     Some are the raw sound files, and others are graphics and animation pictures
     that can be modified, if you wish to change them. Make sure to save as an
     IFF file of 320 wide by 200 high, 32 colors.

         It is a good idea to share your LEVELS with the rest of the world.
     Upload them to BBS's, mail them to Public Domain distributors, or send
     them to  me on the  original disk when  you want  an upgrade. Make a
     "MYLEVELS" directory and copy your levels into it. This will ensure
     that levels will circulate, so we may all enjoy each other's creations.
