    			  SCAPEGHOST

TYPED IN BY THE PERFECT CRIME. EDITED BY PARASITE.


SCAPEGHOST
Alan Chance was on an undercover mission, trying to infiltrate a drugs Šgang. All was going well, but then something or someone alerted the Šgangsters and they killed Alan and escaped, taking his colleague Sarah Šas a hostage.

His fellow police falsely blame a mistake of Alan's for tipping off Šthe criminals.

Alan has three nights as a ghost to disprove this false accusation, Šclear his name and gain revenge. Use his detective skills and growing Šspirit powers to delay the gangsters, track down thier new hideout and Šbring them to justice.

OK.

The light remained off. Ace made as if to applaud, but thought better Šof it.

> IN
I went inside and found myself in the vestry of St. Amiga's chapel, Šlistening to the drone of PC fans and prayer disks. I could see a Šbell, a bottle and a candle.

> SCORE
I scored 15 out of 1000.

> RAM SAVE
OK. (Before doing anything with these strange objects, save the Špositions in Ram - i.e. in the computer's memory - in case you Šencounter difficulties and want to return to this point, using RAM ŠLOAD. To save on disc or anything else use SAVE and then LOAD)

> EXAMINE ALL BUT THE CANDLE
Bell: it was a small golden ornament. Bottle: as I reached for the Šbottle of holy water, I felt my strength drain away. I could not move, Ševen to step back from the bottle !

> RAM LOAD
Ok. I was inside St. Amiga's chapel, listening to the drone of PC fans Šand prayer disks. I could see a bell, a bottle and a candle.

> TAKE BELL
I took the bell. I dropped the key. (Ghosts are relatively weak and Šcannot levitate many things at once).

> GO TO MEMORIAL (letting the computer work out the route. Press any key
to abandon this type of "high level" command).

I floated north and was outside St. Amiga's chapel of rest.

I floated north and found myself beside a fallen oak tree. I floated Šeast and was outside the Sinclair family vault. Exits led west and inside.

> RING BELL
Slowly and with a great noise, the side ot the vault swung Šopen.....................................

HINTS
Draw a map (or a series of maps). Remember that the EXISTS ON command Šlists all the paths from each location.

To make life easy for you, the objects that matter in a location  are Šnormally listed in a sentence like, "You can see Ace and a key". ŠExamine all the objects that you see. Most are useful.

Use the "high level" commands, such as GOT TO CHAPEL, RUN TO SHED, ŠFOLLOW DOG, WAIT 5, WHICH DO THE WORK OF MANY INSTRUCTIONS.

Pressing a key "breaks" out of such commands.

Try everything you can think of even weird or dangerous actions Šsometimes provide clues, and might be fun. You can use UNDO (or Load Šif you have previously used SAVE) to recover if the results are	"fatal".

You can word commands in many different ways. For example, if there Šwere an axe and a ball on the ground, you could take the axe by:

> GET THE AXE
> TAKE AXE
> GET ALL BUT THE BALL
> LOOK AT THE AXE AND TAKE IT

If the game doesn't understand your command, try rephrasing it and Š	using synonyms. If the game still doesn't understand, you are Š	probably trying something that is not important.

HINTS FOR PART 1
* build up your strength as a ghost:
* recruit your fellow spirits:
* buy time by delaying the gang's criminal plans

HINTS FOR PART 2
* once in the gang's old hideout, collect clues to help    the police Š	work out where they have moved to;
* allert the emergency services and make sure that they
  trip over something really dramatic, so they know        foul   play Š	is involved.

HINTS FOR PART 3
* distract the lookout while the police are arriving:
* rescue the hostage and prevent the gang destroying
  the evidence.