




                                 STUNT CAR RACER

     Taken from an ST SEWER SOFTWARE docs disk. Typed in by ALIEN.
     Edited by Parasite.


     It's 2008 and motor racing has taken a new turn...

     DRIVING CONTROLS
     Joystick in the usual port #1...
     Steering        left/right
     Accelerate      forward
     Brake/reverse   back
     Boost           fire

     Once the car has started accelerating, you don't have to continue to push
     forward on the stick.
     Keyboard...
     Steering                S/D
     Boost+accelerate        RETURN  (hold down for boost, release for normal)
     Boost+brake/reverse     SPACE
     Brake/reverse           =
     Quit race               ESC
     Pause                   P
     Unpause                 O

     Redefining keys
     During the game, pause and press F1. Type in the keys you want and unpause.
     Different keysets are held for different players.

     Auto Alignment
     When the car is on a straight and you're not steering, it automatically
     steers in the direction of the track.

     Other controls.
     In menus, use joystick or numeric keys to highlight an option and fire or
     RETURN to select it.

     Practice mode.
     A practice session last 3 laps, after which the car will be repaired and
     refuelled. More practice laps can be attempted if you want. If in SUPER
     LEAGUE, the extra performance of your car applies in practice as well.

     DASHBOARD
     Lap indicator (bottom left): Prefixed with 'L'' e.g. L2 is second lap.

     Boost (next to lap): Prefixed with 'B' e.g. B30 means 30 units left.

     Seperation (below lap): Shows distance between you & your opponent in metres.

     Lap time/stopwatch: The flag indicator lights up when you are in the lead.
     Top right is a display showing current lap time. Under this is the best lap
     time (for both players). The stopwatch lights up if the best lap time is yours.

     Speedometer: Speed shown in 10s of mph (so much for metric in 2008!). If
     speed is above 250mph, the speedo resets and reads from 0 again (add 200 to
     whatever it shows).









     OTHER FEATURES

     Damage
     1. Chassic cracks
     A crack in the chassis occurs during hard cornering or landings. Should a
     crack travel right across the chassis, the car is wrecked and out of the
     race. Cracks are repaired after a race.

     2. Stuctural damage
     Severe impacts cause holes in the crossbar. Not repaired after races, and
     if a crack reaches a hole it progresses at a faster rate. Only in division
     4 do you get an undamaged car for each season.

     Crane
     The crane lifts you onto the track at the start of the race and whenever
     you leave the track subsequently. Only press fire to release from the crane
     when you're over the track!

     RACING

     SINGLE PLAYER LEAGUE

     Objective
     Become top driver in the first league and enter the Super League.

     Super League
     You can only enter this after becoming champion of division one. You can now
     compete against the best drivers in another series of races, but with much
     improved engine power and brakes.

     Racing Seasons
     A full season lasts six races; all permutations with all three drivers and
     the two tracks. You only compete in four of the races. The driver at the
     top of the division at the end of a season is promoted to the bottom of the
     next division up. Abort a season by holding down F1 while selecting NEXT
     RACE. REMEMBER! You are aborting the season, NOT leaving it temporarily!!

     Practice Sessions
     Use them or die, sucker!!

     Points Awarded
             Win             2 points
             Best Lap        1 point

     In the event of a draw at the end of a season, the player with the highest
     number of won races will be promoted. If that's equal too, a random choice
     is made! If you retire from a race or wreck your car, you lose. If both
     players wreck their cars, the first wreck is the loser.

     MULTI PLAYER LEAGUE

     Driver's Championship
     Up to eight playes can take part in the four racing seasons. Races are
     conducted by each player racing against the computer.

     Access to tracks
     Since there is no promotion in multi player, access to tracks higher than
     division four can only be made by saving games from single player when you








     have made it to a higher division. If you're good enough to reach division
     one in single player, you can play those tracks in multi player! Super
     League tracks can also only be accessed in this way. Remember that if you
     load higher tracks like this, the computer racers will perform just as they
     would in those divisions!

     Save Game
     Player names, positions and points can be saved after each season and loaded
     back at a later time to continue from that point (also applies in single
     player). To distinguish between single and multi player saved games, prefix
     multi player filenames with 'MP'. Once you've loaded a saved game, select
     'START SEASON' to continue.

     Restart Championship
     To restart without having to re-enter everyone's names, select REPLAY. To
     restart the whole game and return to single/multi player selection, hold
     down F1 and select REPLAY.

     Multi Player Racing Season
     Consists of two rounds, one on each track. A round consists of each player
     racing against a computer car. Usual point rules apply. Bonus points apply
     like this:
             Best lap time (for human players)       1
             Best race time (for human players)      2
     The computer car's times are ignored.

     Quit the Season
     Skip the remaining races in a round by holding down F1 while selecting to
     continue on the next race fixture page. You then go to the end of track
     bonus points screen. Individual races can be skipped by pressing ESC during
     the race.

     Hall of Fame
     Contains the track and lap records and the names of the people who achieved
     them. These can only be set in a real race, not in practice. Computer cars
     never get onto the hall of fame, thank goodness.

     Save Hall of Fame
     Select SAVE and prefix the filename with 'HALL'.

     Load Hall of Fame
     Select LOAD and select the appropriate filename. If the hall of fame already
     contains some records, only the better ones in the saved version are loaded.
     In this way you could load more than one file to combine all the best records.

     Load / Save
     To go over the filenames again...

     Single player           anything
     Hall of Fame            HALLanything
     Multi player            MPanything

     Suggested filenames are DIV1, DIV2 etc. for different divisions or SDIV1 etc.
     for super league. Press ESC to abort from saving/loading.
     ** NOTE: use a BLANK disk for Stunt Car Racer saves!!  You cannot use a disk
     that already has something else on it!!  If you do, you may lose some of the
     data on that disk!!  Do format the disk before you attempt to save to it,
     though... **









     Replay
     This is effectively an UNDO option if you don't do as well as you expected
     in a season. Only for cheats and cowards really...

     Computerlink Mode
     See, it pays having these 16 bit machines! Connect two STs with a null modem
     lead (as in Populous and Falcon) and load the game on both computers.
     Select COMPUTERLINK (the first machine to select becomes the MASTER and the
     other the SLAVE. The master machine does all the selecting from menus.).
     Now play as in Multi Player League!
     If any machine locks up, press F5 to abort the link.

     RACING TIPS
     Overtake on straights! Use boost at the start and get as far ahead as you can
     in case you crash. When leaving a bend, concentrate on the track ahead, not
     the curve into it. On certain tracks, going as fast as possible is suicide...
     for example, Stepping Stones and Rollercoaster- go too fast, and you'll go
     too far over a jump and find yourself going off the track. On the other hand,
     taking it nice and easy on a track like the High Jump will result in a blob
     of strawberry jam half way up the support...!
     In computerlink mode, you can barge the other player off the track by ramming
     his car. You won't get away without damaging yourself, though! One really
     flash trick is to crash off the track, and when being lifted back, release
     yourself from the crane as the other player passes below.
