                       THE FAERY TALE ADVENTURE

Typed in by GILROY SHATTO. Edited by Parasite.


HOLM:
Need You'll more than might:
To quest for the Light:
Make haste, but take heed:
Scorn Murderous deed:
Summon the sight:
Wing forth in flight:
Hold fast to your Creed:
From Illusion be freed:
Defy ye that blight:
In black Darker than night.

     Once upon a time in a land far away, there lived three young men. ŠBrothers they were, and they lived with theit father who was their Štiny village's Master at Arms.
     Once their daily duties were accomplished, each young man would Špursue acourse of relaxation according to his nature. However, they Šeach knew the time would soon come when relaxation would give way to Štraining for their live's ambitions.
     Julian, the eldest, would pursue games of battle by fancying Šhimself as a great warrior, or an admiral on the high seas engaged in Šfierce combat against fearless maruading pirates. He would run and Šshout as he zealously defeated one imaginary foe after another. Within Ša year, Julian would begin his training as an apprentice under his Šfather, learning the skills of swordsmanship and strategy.
     Phillip, the second brother was often found engaged with the Štownsfolk, either trading sharp wit, or gambling at dice, a game with Šwhich he had great skill and a sharp eye. He had a knack for always Šgetting what he wanted, which made people seldom trust him. His Šapprenticeship would begin in two years, and it would be to the Švillage falconer, who trained the fierce hunting birds.
     Kevin, the youngest, found delight in wandering through local Šfields and glens. His head would be filled with fanciful stories, and Švivid imaginations. Through his wanderings, he carried a pouch full of Šbread, crusts, and animals would follow after him to eat from his Špalm. Kevin's future was uncertain; this gentle young man had yet to Šdecide what direction his life's ambitions would take him.
     However, an extremely long and harsh winter that ended in a Šfeeble and erratic spring changed the futures for the brothers. There Šwere many crop failures in the land and food was scarce all over, yet Šthis was not all, there were greater tribulations yet to come. The ŠKing's Rangers, wardens of the forest and wilderlands, had reported Šmass migrations of orges and goblin men from the far northern Šmountains. They traveled south towards the central lands, scouring the Šland for food, destroying all in their wake.
     Then, one night as the village lay asleep, a strange, mysterious Šthing occurred. An eerie chill passed through the timbers of the small Štown, and people shivered in their beds unexpectedly as a long, Šinhuman wailing was heard coming from the street. When the townspeople Špeered from their windows, they saw a dark, hooded figure, apparently Šfloating above the ground as it moved through the middle of the Švillage. As the folk watched, a cold seemed to pull at their spirits, Šdraining away their vital energy. Behind the dark the dark figure, Šmarching in ranks, was an army of dead corpes, and animated skeletons. ŠArmed with swords, amd maces, they began forming some hideous ritual, Šwhich lasted till dawn.
     That morning, a meeting of the townsfolk was held. The mayor was Špuzzled over the night's events, because for many years the village Šhad kept within their tiny shrine a powerfull talisman against such Ševil spirits. This talisman was a smal carving of a bull which was Šbelieved to have a spirit that was too strong for any undead creature Što endure. The question was soon answered, however, when it was Šdiscovered that the talisman had disappeared. It had been stolen from Šits shrine. 
     The next afternoon, a band of goblin raided the village. ŠUntrained in combat, the villagers put up a slipshord defense that Šresulted in the slaying of many by the goblin's wickedly accurate Šbows.
     The mayor faced the father of the three boys and said "As master Šat arms, you must get help. Go swiftly to the city of Marheim and Šrequest aid of the King. If the King cannot help, seek the  guidance Šof the Red Knight; he is the protector to our land and will be able to Šdefend us."
     A week passed, and the master at arms did not return. The village Šwas decimated by repeated attacks by the goblinmen.
     Eventually, he did return, staggering into the town, barely able Što keep his feet. He had taken a serious belly wound, as well as blows Što the head. The brothers helped their father into the cottage and Šonto his bed to nurse his wounds.
     "My sons," he said, "I have little time left, and much to tell. ŠAn evil Necromancer has threatened to destroy all unless we submit to Šhis will and pay tribute. The King cannot help us; his daughter has Šbeen kidnapped and he is afraid to act, lest she be tortured and Škilled."
     "What of the Red Knight?" asked Julian. "The Knight of Vermillion Šcannot be found. It is feared he is slain. The Necromancer streches Šhis fingers over the whole of this land, while dark wraiths wail into Šthe night with their skeleton servants, unchecked by any hero. Goblins Šand ogres are a constant menace, and doom is upon us."
     "Please don't die, father, what can we do?" asked Kevin. "I'm Šafraid I cannot grant your first request," whispered the father, "I Šcan do nothing, but perhaps you can. There may be a way, a dangerous Šway, but possible. Many centuries ago, events similar to these were Šprophesied by Malbareth the Seer. The prophecy describes seven quests Šthat must be completed in order to defeat the enemy. You must find the Šweapon that will destroy him. You must find his stronghold. You must Špass the barriers, each of which will require a special token. You Šmust retrieve the Talisman, for I know now that he keeps it with him Šat all times. There is more than that you must do, but I know it Šnot...perhaps you may receive the advice along the way. 
     "There are things you should know. I had hoped that I could teach Šyou these things in their proper time, but now...I grow weak. Come Šcloser...quickly...I must expalin. There are many artifacts, magical Šcharms left over from the ancient days. You will find them on your Šjourney...everyone who travels in this land finds at least one or two. ŠEach token can be used only once, some are for transportation, some Šfor navigation. For example, gold rings control time. Some allow you Što see in the dark, others allow you to see what is hidden. Glass Švials contain a powerfull restorative elixer. At least one token is Šassociated somehow with rocks, and one is a powerfull spell od death Šfor all lesser creatures."
     "There are other kinds of ancient artifacts as well. These you Šmust find. They have no powers of their own, but rather entitle the Šbearer to certain privileges. Who is to execute these privileges I Šdon't quite understand...but enough, go to the chest near the bed, Šthere are some gold coins; divide them amoung yourselves...now I must Šsay goodbye my sons...may you have food, fortune and a good life." ŠWhen the master at arms finished these sayings, his spirit departed. 

PLAYERS INSTRUCTIONS:

THE GAME:
     Once the disk is loaded the first thing you will see is the Šcredits page, and then the introduction screens. These may be skipped Šover by pressing the space bar.
     Once the introduction is complete, a screen will be displayed Šrequesting you to answer three questions. The questions all refer to a Šmagical prophecy, which has been inscribed in the border design of the Šsupplied playing map. Once the questions have been answered, it will Štake a few seconds to load in the game data. After that, play begins Šimmediately.

MOVING THE BROTHERS:
     To control your character, use either the mouse, joystick or Škeyboard. You can use any of these at any time; no command is needed Što switch over.
     On the bottom right corner of the display there is a compass with Šeight points. These represent the directions you can move your Šcharacter in.
     To use the mouse, place the pointer over the compass point that Šrepresents the direction you want to go. Hold down the left button to Šstart the character walking. Release the button and the character Šstops.(I have found that when you release the button your !@#$%^^&*() Šcharacter runs due north). You can move the mouse while holding the Šbutton to change direction.
     To use the joystick, press the joystick handle in the direction Šyou want to go. The character will move in that direction.
     To use the keyboard, use the numeric keypad on the right side of Šthe keyboard to control direction. Ignore the numerals printed on the Škeycaps; use the physical position of the keys only. For example to Šmove towards the top left, press the top left key on the keypad (the Š'7' key). Only the keys 1-9 are used in this manner. Release the key Što stop the character.

COMBAT:
     You can attack in the same eight directions as you can walk. If Šyou are using the mouse, hold down the right mouse button to attack. ŠIf you are using the joystick, use the fire button to attack. If you Šare using the keyboard, the '0' (zero) key on the numeric keypad is Šused. Note that attacks are directional; you must be facing towards Šyour opponent to hit. Direction of attack is controlled the same way Šas movement.

NARRATION:
     On the bottom right of the display you will find the narration Šscroll. This provides a running commentary of what is happening in the Šgame. It also displays the character's current scores.
There are five scores:
*Bravery (Brv) represents a measure of the character's courage, and Šcontributes to the character's prowess in battle.

*LUCK (Lck) helps to save the character from an untimely death. If a Šdying character has enough luck, a good fairy will come and heal him Šand transport him back to the last safe place he was at.

*KINDNESS (Knd) helps the character communicate with other figures in Šthe game. If the character has a low Kindness score, they may refuse Što speak to him.

*VITALITY (Vit) is a measure of the health of the character. When this Šscore reaches zero (as it can through wounds or drowning) the Šcharcater will die.

*WEALTH (Wlth) represents how many coins the character has in his Špocket.

OTHER COMMANDS:
     Between the narration scroll and the compass you will find the Šcommand menu. This can be activated by the mouse (by clicking on the Šappropriately labeled bar) or by pressing an equivalent key on the Škeyboard.
     The first five options (in blue) can select which of the five Šdifferent command menues you are looking at. Below is a list of all Šthe menues. After each menue, in parenthesis, is the equivalent Škeyboard command.

ITEMS:
*List (l) show a list of all items carried.
*Take (T) take an object lying on the ground or off a dead character's Šbody.
*Look (?) look for hidden items.
*Give (G) give an item to someone else.
*Use  (U) goes to a sub-menu which asks which of the following items Šyou want              to use:
          DIRK (1) put away current weapons and draw dagger.
          MACE (2) put away current weapon and draw mace.
          SWORD(3) put away current weapon and draw sword.
          BOW  (4) put away current weapon and draw bow and arrow.
          WAND (5) put away current weapon and draw magic wand.
          KEY  (K) use a key. Goes to a key color sub-menu.
                   (K1)-use gold key      (K4)-use red key
                   (K2)-use green key     (K5)-use grey key
                   (K3)-use blue key      (K6)-use white key
MAGIC:
     There are seven different kinds of one-use magic items that you Šwill find. Selecting an option under this menue will use up one of the Šselected kind of items. It is up to you to figure out what each item Šdoes. The function keys are used as keyboard equivalents.
  Stone (F1)-uses a blue stone.     Totem (F5)-uses a bird totem.
  Jewel (F2)-use a green jewel.     Ring  (F6)-use a gold ring.
  Vial  (F3)-drink a glass vial.    Skull (F7)-use a jade skull.
  Orb   (F4)-use a crystal orb.     

TALK:
     The options are Yell (Y), Say (S), and Ask (A).

BUY:
     These commands will only work in the presence of a character who Šis selling something. The options are:
                  (O)-Buy Food           (W)-Buy Sword
                  (R)-Buy Arrow          (B)-Buy Bow
                  (8)-Buy Healing Vial   (E)-Buy Bird Totem
                  (C)-Buy Mace
GAME:
*PAUSE (Spacebar) pause the game.
*MUSIC (M) turn off or on the music.
*SOUND (F) turn off or on the sound effects.
*Quit (Q) quit or save game-goes to sub-menu asks if you want to exit Šor save              the game. If you choose save, it will ask you to Šselect a save area
          (SEE LOAD BELOW).
*Load (L) load a previously saved games goes to a sub-menu of 8 saved Šareas, labeled A-H. Click the mouse on the area you wish to save the Šgame under.

HOW TO WIN:
     To win the game, you must defeat the Necromancer and recover the Štailsman. To do this will require that you perform a number of great Šdeeds. You will need special magic and help to accomplish your goal, Šand these will be discovered in the course of your adventures. Clues Šcan be gained by conversing with the various characters you meet Šthroughout the game. You can converse with monsters, however their Šconversation tends to be limited and not at all interesting.

SOME HINTS:
     Don't be discouraged if you don't seem to be getting anywhere at Šfirst. The playing map is huge (144 screens tall by 100 screens wide) Šand it will take you a long time to explore all of it. There are a Šnumber of very interesting places on the mao, but it may take you a Šwhile to find them. Roads will generally lead you somewhere, however Šthere are a lot of buildings and other important places that are not Šnear any road. 
     If a character you meet does not immediately attack you, it's Špossibly friendly. Probably, Another thing: don't be fooled by Šappearances.
     There are a couple of magical animals that you can find that will Šhelp you as well, in certain cases.