                           THE RUNNING MAN

Typed in by THE NINJA. Edited by Parasite.


SCENARIO
   The year is 2019 and the USA has become a totalitarian state. Personal
   freedoms no longer exist and only television distracts the people from
   their plight. One show is more popular than any other, The Running Man,
   a deadly cat - and - mouse carnival in which the contestants battle for
   the ultimate prize:survival. After refusing to fire on un-armed
   demonstrators Ben Richards is wrongly convicted and labeled "Butcher of
   Bakersfield", this is the start of a chain of events which lead to him
   becoming the 'star runner' on 'The Running Man'. No contestant has ever
   won. All have perished within the 'Game Zone' of a destroyed Los
   Angeles, hunted down by four lethal 'Stalkers'. In Tonight's show Ben
   Richards must survive, prove he is innocent and expose the currupt
   propaganda of the ICS network. Ben is launched into the game zone by
   Damon Killian, the host and inventor of 'The Running Man'. He promises
   Killian "I'll be back!" - no other contestant has ever come close.
   You are Ben Richards, you must run for your life.

THE GAME
The Running Man is a one player game inwhich you must manouever Ben 
Richards though 4 game zones and a TV studio. You must defeat all the
stalkers and guards, fight off the attack dogs and fulfill your promise
to Killian. The first zone is the 'Ice Rink"

ZONE 1 - ICE RINK
Here you will encounter your first human obstacle, SUBZERO. This ex-ice
hockey champion carries a razor -sharp hockey stick and launches
exploding pucks.

ZONE 2 - SUBURBS
If you survive SUBZERO's attentions you will meet buzzsaw whose tri-
teflon coated chainsaw can finish Ben's run right here.

ZONE 3 - CITY LIGHTS
The third game zone was once the gright lights of Los Angeles, it's now
illuminated by the flash of lightening bolts from the human Christmas tree
DYNAMO, You must use all your cunning to overcome this opponent.

ZONE 4 - THE COMPLEX
Inside this labyrinth of pipes and ducts you must avoid the red hot
flames of FIREBALL. His flame-thrower also functions as a jet pack
enabling hime to fly.

THE STUDIO
If your skill is such that no stalkers can stand in your way you will
return to the TV studio. Here armed guards will attempt to halt your
progress to Killian. If you succeed in reaching him the reward will be
freedom an revenge.

BASIC PLAY
The joystick is used to control Ben as follows:
without the fire button pressed
Center - Stands still
Down   - Moves into a crouch if standing
Up/Left/Right - Jumps up if standing, stands up if crouching
Left/Right    - Turn/Move left or right. If the joystick is moved twice
                quickly in the same direction Ben will run in that
                direction (he will make a higher/longer jump whilst
                running)
Down/Left/Right - Crawl

With the fire button pressed
Center - Kicks in the direction faced.
Down   - Moves into a crouch if standing. If crouching collects/drops
         weapon.
Up     - Jumps
Left/Right - turns/punches if facing in that direction. If holding a
             weapon uses it.
Weapons
In the game zone you may find various objects which you may use as
weapons. These include bricks, pipes, and guns. You can kill some
stalkers without using weapons but this will require greater skill.

HEALTH
   If you are struck by a stalker of fall into a trap your health will
   suffer. Your health is displayed at the bottom of the screen together
   with that of any stalker you are fighting. Your health can be improved
   by two methods, medi-packs which are in various locations throughout
   the game and by completing the UP-LINK-CODE. If your health gets below
   a certain level you are deemed as unconscious and the game ends.

The UP-LINK CODE
   Between each game zone you must try to attain the UP-LINK CODE. This
   involves a simple coordination game, in which you must match two sets
   of symbols. You are presented with two sets of 8 symbols, the left set
   is then mixed up. Two highlights will appear, these can be moved with
   the joystick, If the fire button is pressed the two symbols that are
   marked will swap position. Using the right hand symbols as a guide you
   must put all the symbols in the correct position. If this is achieved
   in the allocated time then your health is restored for the next game
   zone.

SCORE
The score is based on the money bet by viewers. If you fight well then the
more money they can bet. Bonus betting occurs when you complete a zone
and for killing a stalker.