                            TOWER OF BABEL

Taken from AMIGA FORMAT COVERDISK 11, for the playable demo version of this Šgame, however I think it will be a great help. Edited by Parasite.


INTRODUCTION

Many generations after the flooding of the Earth, and Noah's successful 
journey in the ark with all the animals, the people of the World decided to
congregate in a place called Shinar. There they built a tower of enormous 
height that reached far into the clouds.

The purpose of this tower was one: it would be so high that anyone could
climb to the top and communicate with God. So much for the theory.

Although the tower didn't attract God's attention, it did arouse the
interest of a passingNeravas class 1 cruiser from Zantor (a planet in a
solar system some 30 light years from Earth). Being benevolent beings, the
Zantorians left a triad of robots to assist the people of Shinar with the
building of their tower. The robots - sculptured in the form of the
Zantorians - were also instructed to teach the Earth people about life and
the Universe in general.

Being human, and generally frightened of things they couldn't understand,
many of Shinar's inhabitants fled. Some, however, stayed and learnt much
from the robots (which, noted the remaining Shinarians, had a remarkable
likeness to large - very large - spiders).

Soon the spiders and remaining Shinarians built up a great relationship and 
continued adding to the tower. The purpose was now twofold. The Shinarians
still wanted to meet their maker, and the spiders needed to get high enough
to tranmit a message to their owners so that they could be taken back to 
Zantor.

This happy co-existance lasted for a long while. But when it became clear
to the humans building the tower that the spiders were homesick, some became
jealous. With the knowledge they'd gained from the spiders, the Shinarians
built devices to deter the Zantorian robots from progressing up the tower.
Explosive devices were built, blockades positioned and traps set. Even the
spiders' energy packs were hidden.

Shinarians who wanted no part of the spiders downfall fled. Only a handful
of degenerates remained building ever more traps for the spiders.
Eventually the spiders discovered what was happening and destroyed the evil
Shinarians.

But as far as can be ascertained, the spiders are still trying to get out...

And it's up to you to help them.

To do this you must guide three spiders, either individually or
simultaneously, past obstacles. You will also have to help them find
Klondikes (thier energy modules hidden by evil Shinarians).

PLAYING INSTRUCTIONS

On running Tower of Babel you will be presented with a credits screen. Press
the space bar to continue.

The following acts as a guide to the options Play Tower, Zapping Practice,
Pushing Practice, Grabbing Practice.

Until you move or fire a spider, the tower remains static and you can
change views at will.

Very briefly, you have three spiders (Zapper, Pusher and Grabber) which must
be individually controlled to solve puzzles, rid the tower of alien filth
and collect Klondikes. Each spider has its own characteristic - 
particularised by its name. By highlighting a spider's name and clicking on
the directional icons (arrows) it's possible to control a spider and see the
tower through its eyes.

Compass (or camera) icons let you see the tower from North, South, East and
West viewpoints.

Please note: all control is via the mouse.

A menu bar appears when you click on the Pause icon. Options in the menu bar
let you, among other things, determine how spiders and other items are
viewed. Click on the menu heading to make all other options appear.

There is no luck in Tower of Babel; only logic will get you through.