




                                 URIDIUM HINTS

     By JEFF DONAHUE. Edited by Parasite.


     Zinc: Stay near the middle until you are safely past the rows of
     metero deflectors at the cente of the ship. The landing field is
     toward the bottom of the screen.

     Lead: Start your run at the bottom of the screen. Once you've
     gone by the first bunch of obstacles, fly to the top and it's
     clear sailing straight to the landing field.

     Copper: Fly midscreen and then go down. When you pass a wall of
     deflectors, move to the toop of the screen. You'll pass another
     wall with just one opening in it. Go down, pass more deflectors,
     and then move up a bit to make you landing.

     Silver: Stay near the bottom of the screen until yoyu clar the
     rows of communications antennae, and then move to themiddle for
     an easy landing.

     Iron: As with Silver, begin at the bottom and move up when you
     are beyond the antenna. Stay exactly in the middle until you are
     through the corridor of deflectors, and then do a 90 degree roll
     and fly near the bottom through the small gap in the deflector
     wall. Reduce your speed and land on the field, which is at the
     top of the screen right behind the wall.

     Gold: Fly midway between the top and middle of the screen, slowly
     skirting the horizontal wall of deflectors. With a flick of a
     wrist, lyou slhould be able to drop down, reverse direction, and
     reverwe direction again. Next, go all the way to the top of the
     screen. The landing field is close to the top of the screen.

     Platinum: Try flying this level entirely on your side. For this
     ship yhou ned to fly rapidly down, up to the middle, back down,
     just above the bottom,a nd up to the middle.

     In the fuel rod chambers, try to feel the rhythlms of the
     flashing lights. When the lights are going by too quickly, click
     on quit or just close lyour eyes. If you just can't seem to get
     the rhythm, closing your eyes at least gives you a 50-50 chance
     of getting the points.
