




                                  VIRUS HINTS

     By ???. Edited by Parasite.


     Watch the demo, for it starts as a beginner and learns from its mistakes.
     If you let it run for a long time, you will watch it fight as a master.

     Controls:
     To complete this game you must be patient and learn the controls.  Do not
     use the keyboard controls and spend your time practicing with the mouse
     controls.

     I had an extreemly hard time getting the "feel" to flying in this game and
     find the controls just too hard to use, where some friends just absolutely
     love the controls.  To each his own.

     First find a good playing place to use your mouse. Make sure you have
     placed the mouse in the middle of the area.  Note this area for when you
     have to stabilize your ship, you will want to return here.

     If you lose control you can also use the "/" key to stabilize yourself.
     Only it loses your centering place on the mouse pad.

     Start practicing on how to stay in the air.  You want to stay in the air
     but use as little of the energy used as thrust as possible.

     Once you have figured out how to hover without crashing onto the ground,
     then gently (I SAID GENTLY!) move the mouse forward. Your ship will tilt a
     little forward and you will now be traveling forward. If you lose control
     just slide the mouse back to the center area mentioned above. You will then
     be right-side up and keep hovering.

     Practice, practice, practice.  Once you have mastered the controls, then
     start reading below:

     Alien ships are dumping "Red Virus" all over your world, and your job is to
     stop them. To do this, you will have to destroy many different types of
     ships and each has its unique strategy.

     There are eight different alien aircraft you must deal with.

     You will want to look for the virus spreaders, first.  There are two of
     these, the first is the "seeder".  It travels around spewing out the virus
     and occasionally lands to do the same.  They have a very simple flight
     pattern and you need only to get close and strafe them.

     The second alien ship is called the "bomber".  Not like the "seeder", it is
     fast and travels in straight lines.  You will see cannisters dropping from
     it to the ground.  The best way to get this guy is to get behind it, and
     fly at the same altitude or just higher.  When you catch up with it, fire
     and you should get it.

     If you want to use the "homing missile" make sure you are in front of the
     "bomber" and not behind.  You must get familiar with destroying the
     "bomber" because it is the most destructive spreader of the virus.

     By the way, you can get extra points if you destroy trees that are infected








     with the virus.

     The ship that looks red and brown is probably the "drone".  It is an attack
     ship and you will want to find it and destroy it. The best way of dealing
     with this guy is to fly into its area and hover in one spot and make it
     come to you.  Once is comes, turn and spray your bullets into its path.

     The alien ship that looks red and orange is the "fighter".  Use the same
     technique as that used against the "drone".  Note: it takes two hits to
     kill it while the "drone" requires only one hit.

     The "pests" are very dangerous and the way to handle them is to take them
     on, head on head and fire.  Just before you collide, use thrust and it will
     go under you if you missed it.

     The red and white ship that looks like a "seeder" is a very dangerous
     enemy and is called the "attractor".  You will want to attack this ship
     from way up in altitude and be almost exactly on top of it. While diving,
     if it starts using the tractor beam, try to thrust away using all sorts of
     movements. While diving, you can also fire a homing missile.

     An alternative method agains the "attractor" is to approach it over the
     ocean from above.  Let is pull you down, fire while it is doing this.  If
     you miss it, thrust just before you collide and turn and fire again.
     Practice with this method.  It works!

     There is a Mystery Ship is found on your map as a "black dot".  It should
     appear on level six.  It will fly on a straight level pattern and you
     should be able to knock it out with a homing missile. NOTE: It takes an
     immense amount of hits to kill it.

     When starting a new level, destroy the seeders first.

     If you see the legendary sea monster, shoot it and get 1000 points.

     BACKDOOR TIME:
     While playing, hold down the ENTER key on the numeric pad and hit "P" to
     pause the game.  While still holding down the ENTER key hit "O" to turn on
     the cheat mode.  F - will restore your fuel.
                      L - will add one life and one missile.
                      O or D - will start the demo mode.
                      C - special effects
                      N - resume game
