Description of HOW:
-------------------

HOW is Freeware. This means that the game is freely distributable but
copyrighted software. 

You may copy the game to anyone you like - but you are not allowed to sell it.

If you want to distribute this game on an commercial basis, you must have my
(the authors) permission and a version including the name of your 
PD-Catalog. Every version of HOW will contain an entry about the PD-Catalog /
PD-Distributor it is meant for, this entry will be shown at the beginning of 
the Game. 
If you see this game on a PD-Catalog XY1 and the entry says, the game is for 
XY2, I would be glad if you would give me an hint and the address of the 
distributor.

PD-Distributors or people who do their own PD-Catalog may obtain their own
version if they write a letter to me. (Please do not forget to tell me the
price at which you sell your disks)


			HOW: The game and the editor

                        COPYRIGHT DEZEMBER 1992:

                        PETER HÄNDEL
                        BISMARCKSTR. 7A
                        4800 BIELEFELD 1
                        GERMANY

                        TEL.: 0521/122352

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Now, a few words about HOW:

Rules of the Game:
------------------

The aim of the game is to get the ball from the start (S) to the 
exit (E) - while trying to turn all squares to the same color.
Because this would be rather easy there is a time limit for each level -
running out of time means loosing one (balls) life and replaying the level.

You have to change the color of all squares to the color of the square shown
below the word "MENUE". If the ball moves across a square, the color of this
square will change in a cyclic order : red will become green, green will become
blue, blue will become yellow and yellow will become red again.

Because of this all being really to easy, I included a few extras:
The square with the red circles will beam your ball to one of the other squares
of the same kind, the arrow will reverse the handling of your Joystick (Moving
to the right will cause the ball rolling to the right .. and so on).
In the higher levels there will be more than one Exit, find the right one on
your own...

If you click the area labeled MENUE, you can load and save your games, restart
or exit the program - or just have a break. If you load a game, the game will
be started automatically, if you save your game, you have to press SAVE twice
to continue the game.
                                          
If you have made any faults in a level, you can restart the level by clicking
on one of the litte green squares, if you really can't manage a level, you can
skip it with the yellow arrows - this will be possible only four times.

You can adjust the speed of the ball if you modify the counter written in the
file "TIME". For an A500, 3500 is fine, for an A3000 at 25 MHz adjust to 35000.
(A3000 users: There were problems with the sprite (ball) when using an
overscanned Workbench - create a Bootdisk for HOW. Any hints about this 
effect are welcome (This does not happen on A500+)).
So, the only thing you need to configure this game for your acceleration -
board is a simple ASCII - Editor.

Finally, something about scoring. At the beginning, you have a score of 1000
and a certain number of movements. With every movement you do, the score will
be decreased, so my advice is: not more movements than necessary - which will
give you a high Score.


The Editor
----------

There is one great improvement of the Level Editor compared to my previous
Editors: If you placed all your rocks, the start and the exit, you can choose
"Create Start" and then roll the ball with the Joystick. So you can create your 
own Levels and all of them can definitely be solved ! The Editor is almost the 
same as the game, but all kind of actions will be reversed: you have to start on 
(E) and Exit on (S), the colors will change in the other direction and so on.
You have to choose the main color of the squares before you edit the details.
Everything can be placed by clicking on the according square at the right area
of the screen and moving it to the area where the game will take place.
Increasing the difficulty of a level is easy: Just add some more exits.

All in all the handling of the Editor was meant to be easy - just try it.


Peter Händel  20.12.91

 