Short:    Roketz - FULL version 1.39 (FREEWARE)
Uploader: mreyn@currantbun.com (Mark Reynolds)
Author:   The FARM (1.38) Mark Reynolds (tweak to 1.39)
Type:     game/2play
Requires: AGA, 1MB+ Fast and HD.


                  Roketz - Full Version 1.39 (26-4-2002)
                The ultimate PAL AGA only shoot-em-up/racer
              ----------------------------------------------

First things first, this version of Roketz is FREEWARE. This is a small 
modification of 1.38 that was originally shareware-only. It is now
registered to the Amiga Community, with permission from the original
authors.

If you like this game, please mail me and say so! There's the thought of
creating a C version with a few extra features, and it would be nice to
know if there are any ideas (or perhaps a few willing coders) out there.

If you have the full version 1.38 then here's list of what's changed:

* Re-wrote some of the quickdocs
* Slight tweak to remove some spelling mistakes.
* Removed a bug with the music.

And for those that have only seen the PD version, or (shame on you!)
have never seen Roketz before, this is what you get:

  - 6 worlds of raytraced battlegrounds featuring active background elements as
    cannons, teleporters, forcefields etc.
  - 4 customized roketz
  - lots of different weapons and upgrades

Roketz can be copied directly to any dir on your HD. The game was originally
designed to run from floppy too. If you copy the executable, the DAT files up to
(but not including) Roketz_06.DAT, and a startup-sequence to one floppy, along 
with the libs diskfont.library and mathtrans.library,  then the
rest should go on a disk called "Roketz Disk 2". Let me know if you have problems,
and I will work out exactly what to do, along with a script to do it for you. :)


Important! When playing from disk remember to unprotect it and keep 
it in disk drive while playing if you want the status and scoring system 
to work properly.

When started from HD then no assigns must be made, just make sure
diskfont.library and mathtrans.library are present in your libs: - these
are needed too.

If you have HD and no fastmem then you might just be able to run Roketz
- it eats a lot memory so disable all external hardware and boot without
startup-sequence. 


About the gameplay:

If you seem to die more then three times in a minute, read the docs 
and practice a little with the slowest engine. The game will not be true
fun before you have really mastered the skill of flying.

You should read the ingame docs (at least once ;) to get the most out of
Roketz!

Now some legal stuff:

Amiga, AmigaDOS, Workbench 'n stuff are registered trade marks of 
Amiga. All other trademarks are property of their respective
owners.

Roketz, Roketz logo and The FARM logo are registered TM of The FARM.

Software is provided "as is" and subject to change; no warranties
are made. All use is at your own risk. No liability or responsibility is
assumed.

Finally:
Neither The FARM or myself take any responsibility for damages resulting in
extensive Roketz playing.


Mark Reynolds,
mreyn@currantbun.com
