GALAGA WARS - Instructions
Original text by Michael Rosskopf
Revised edition by Wiremu Te Kani


Features:

-Space-shoot¥em up at 50 frames per second

-6 different levels with big end-of-level nasties

-5 different selectable spacefighters

-nearly 40 different types of enemies

-continuous storyline

-animated ending-sequence

-100% FREEWARE



System requirements:

The game should run on all AMIGAs. I don¥t know how much memory it needs,
1MB should be enough. To run the game well, your AMIGA should have a
68020 processor at least. It hasn't been tested on an A500 or machine
with a 68000 yet. Either way it should still be alright.


Installation:

Clicking on the Galagawars icon should make the game run fine. If it
doesn't, send your offensive remarks to the Email address listed
below.

If you don¥t want to play the game in a PAL-resolution, you should use
a screen-promotor.

The game:

Galaga Wars is a classical space-shoot¥em up. You control a starship which
has to fight against a large number of enemies. You have to fly six missions
which are all connected through a story you get to know while playing.

At the end of every mission, you have to annihilate a very strong end
of level nasty. You get new and better starships to select for each
level you complete, but remember, the latest ship is not always the best
one, and sometimes you can select between different missions.


Michael Rosskopf:

As inspiration for this game, different games served me, especially the best
and most timeless game ever in my opinion: The arcade game "Galaga" which
came into the videogame-halls in the year 1982.

I like to play modern and complex games too, but can there be a better game
for five minutes fun (except perhaps "Centipede")? Current games are
often very time-consuming, and if you clock them, they end up flying into
the deepest corner of the cupboard.

Wiremu Te Kani:

I'm a retro game junkie by trade. I agree with him; some games are
too complicated for their own good.

I wholeheartedly suggest you finding and downloading Deluxe Galaga by
Edgar M. Vidgal if you're into games of this genre.


The controls:

You can play the game with the joystick and the keyboard. For
Use the cursor-keys and FIRE with the Left-Shift key.

When different ships and missions are available, make your choice by
moving the joystick UP, DOWN, LEFT and RIGHT. For confirmation and
starting press FIRE.

You can pause the game with P. With ESC you get back to the mainscreen and
from there back to Workbench.


If you have questions or improvements, contact me:

Michael Roﬂkopf
Saarlandstraﬂe 25
44866 Bochum

Tel.: 02327 / 31546

E-Mail: Michael_Rosskopf@gmx.de

xand

Wiremu Te Kani
107 Frederick St
Hastings
New Zealand

E-Mail: wtekani@netscape.net

Special thanks to Marco Christ who designed some starships for this game!
And now I wish you much fun with the game!
