Short:    Galagawars V1.5 + Source by Michael Rosskopf & Wiremu Te Kani
Uploader: wtekani@netscape.net (Wiremu Te Kani)
Author:   wtekani@netscape.net (Wiremu Te Kani)
Type:     game/shootemup

Galagawars! Updated with ENGLISH source!

This is the updated version of Michael Rosskopfs Galagawars game. It
runs about 20-30% faster than the original, using interleaved
bitmaps, intelligent blitting, and Fish's multiple sprites technique
for the starscape, and all the graphics have been updated and
revamped.

The sourcecode is included with this file.  The original was written
in Michaels native german, with german variables and remarks. This
version has virtually ALL that translated to English.  Included is
source codes for converting shapes into the interleaved bitmap
format, but don't expect it to be very concise or helpful on matters.
I built the inmap program just for the sake of Galagawars. It is
currently user FIENDly.

The original Galagawars had all its files divvyed across several
directories (Bitmaps, Spaceships, Shooters etc). Included in the
source is a program which compiles all the shapes into one great big
shape file.  This latest source compiles the whole game as ONE file
too.

Well that's my lot. Well, I'll stop talking now and you can read
Micheal Rosskopfs text. Bye!

Wiremu Te Kani - November 17th 1999
Email: wtekani@netscape.net

-------------------------------------

Hi everybody!

Unfortunately I¥m too short of time to develop more software (I'm
studying computer-science and busy with JAVA and so on), so I decided on
releasing the sourcecode of my programs.

For my last release GALAGA WARS I¥ve got many responses, so I think
there could be people outside want to develop that game.

My programs are all freeware, so you can do what you want with it. But it¥d
be great if you inform me about when you want to use the code.
And it¥d be better if you mentioned me in your software.

All programs are written in BLITZ BASIC II. The code is a little bit lame.
I¥m sure that you can make it better now you have the chance.

Unfortunately I¥ve only used a small number of comments, but after taking
some time the code can¥t be as hard as it seems.

The source-codes of the following programs are available on the aminet
(I think you have one of them, because you're reading this!):

-Galaga Wars (classic space-shooter)
-Nuclear Assault (a game like Missile Command)
-Mech-Konstruktor (program for designing Battlemechs)

If I have time, I¥ll program some new stuff in BLITZ BASIC.

But I also have to take care of my other hobbies.
I produce techno- and trance-music. On my homepages you find info and some
tracks ready for download:

http://members.tripod.de/magicwave
(I do this together with Marco who has designed some of the GALAGA WARS
starships)

http://members.tripod.de/netTraxX (my homepage)

For questions contact:

Michael Roﬂkopf
Saarlandstraﬂe 25
44866 Bochum
Germany

Tel.: +49-2327-31546

E-Mail: Michael_Rosskopf@gmx.de

AMIGA rulez!

cu

Michael (April 4th, 1999)
