
M*A*S*H
-------

Our latest mega blockbuster game , M*A*S*H is an insanely violent war game
for 1 or 2 players where two teams of genetically altered Spuds try to cross
the level ( a bit like Lemmings )and blast each other to tiny little bits ( a
                                                    bit like Scorched Tanks. )  

The whole game is mouse controlled and for the two player game each player
takes turns , each turn lasting a fixed length of time .

- INSTRUCTIONS -

The objective of the game is to cross the level and hit your enemy's base a
set number of times .

Two types of unit are under your control , Tanks and Spuds . To switch between
different units click on them with the RIGHT mouse button . 

At the start of the game you are in control of your base and there are two
buttons at the bottom of the screen , Tanks and Spuds . Clicking on either of
these deploys a unit . The buttons at the bottom of the screen are then
replaced by the control buttons for that unit . 

Select options from the buttons with the LEFT mouse button .

The options available are as follows :

	Spuds 
	-----

Bazooka - 

	This is the weapon system button . Once clicked on , the buttons are
replaced by the weapon options . There are 5 types of missile available ;

1. Thermal Bomb - Small explosion , no crater.
2. High Explosive - Large explosion , crater.
3. Flame Thrower - Short range flame.
4. Rockets - Fires missile in straight line .
5. Blight Bomb - Infects any spuds within 40 pixels ! ( Doesn't affect tanks
						unless it's a direct hit .)

Moving the mouse pointer over the buttons will give you your stocks of that
weapon . Click the left mouse button on the angle requestor in the top left of
the screen to alter the angle and power of your shot . 
Click the RIGHT mouse button to fire a missile . Up to 5 can be airborne 
simultaneously .
Click on the bazooka button to return to the main options .


Walk -
	With this selected clicking on the play area with the LEFT mouse button
will make your spud try to walk towards the mouse pointer .

Bridge -
	Click on this with the LEFT mouse button to build a bridge in the 
direction your spud is currently facing . The walk option is then automatically
								     selected.
Mine -
	Clicking on the play area with the LEFT mouse button to make your spud
jackhammer through the scenery in the direction of the pointer.

Jetpack - 
	Click on the play area to boost in the direction of the mouse pointer.
Your fuel supply is shown in the top left .


	Tanks
	-----

Two options are available to the tanks .

Move -
	This works the same as the walk option for the spuds.

Weapons - 
	The exact same as the spud's system except the flame thrower is
replaced by the burster rocket which explodes with a wide explosion on impact.



Tips on game play :

1. Try to move up a few units at a time so that if one gets hit you don't have
to go back to the base to deploy a new one , thus losing valuable ground .

2. Keep the angle as low as possible when firing bombs so that they hit the 
ground faster , giving you more time to get off as many shots as possible .

3. Instead of firing a volly of 5 shots that will hit the same spot , try 
firing one then changing the angle slightly and firing another . This gives a
wider "blanket" of fire , increasing your chances of wiping the other guy .

4. Be carefull when jetpacking that you don't go too fast , because if you
are going too fast when you land you'll get squished !

5. Watch out when firing the blight bombs that your spuds are out of range ,
   for obvious reasons . ( Unless you're feeling suicidal .)

6. Subscribe for the second version so that you'll have a free concience and
be better able to justify the wanton slaughter of hundreds of innocent little
psycho potatoes . You'll also have much more fun with the split screen game 
						and extra weapons and things !

>
