
ParanoiD is as you've probably guessed , the name of our programming team ,
named after the legendary Black Sabbath song and the mental condition which
at least 2 of our group suffer from . 

To contact us try one of the following:

Snail Mail: Chris Greganc, Sheaf Of Wheat, Dunboyne, Co. Meath.
E-Mail : greganc@alf2.tcd.ie

Check out the home page as well:
http://www3.tcd.ie/~greganc/index.html
( or do a web search for 'greganc' which is probably quicker !)


The whole team are :

Chris Gregan - Hairy programmer and game artist !

Gavin O' Brien - Manic depressive and brilliant muzak man !

Binny Gogan - Obnoxious self centered (and proud of it) ray tracer !

Dave O' Leary - Hard of hearing ( no , seriously , he is ! ) ideas man .

Fergal Reilly - Playtester and occasional musician .

Steve Daly - Um ... Bassist ? He hates computers !

Thanks to Muldoon for being so thick ( one day in biology class he told us
that potatoes are carnivores ! Inspiration strikes ! ) 
Greetings to Steven Kenny , Ciaran Mc Donnell and Connor Fahy .


I programmed this game using an standard A1200 with a 210 Mb hard drive .
Programmes used were :

DPaint IV , OctamedPro , Imagine , StereoMaster and AmosPro .

Yes , this game was programmed in AMOS ! I had to stick to all the old Amos 1.3
command set though because I only have the old compiler . Still , AmosPro
knocks hell out of the old versions .

Previous games we've released in the P.D ;

Tachyon - Fast light cycles games
Orbit - Light cycles derivitive ( sort of like football with snakes !)
AntWars 1 - 2 player war game a bit like M*A*SH
AntWars 1.9 - Totally reprogrammed Simultaneous 2 player version .
and AntWars II the shareware version .


As for the future , who knows ?

For my own part , I can't see myself ever buying a P.C . I absolutely hate
the things . Too beginner friendly , not enough power for anything besides
word processing , spread sheets or Doom II . And talk about operating systems.
Yuck ! ( I know what I'm talking about, we're forced to use them in college. )

Our next game is going to be called WARHEAD and is very near completion.
It's an adventure game, but with an extremely original slant on the usual
approach. And yes, it's very, very twisted ! Look out for a demo on the 
AMINET and P.D. dead soon. 

I intend to keep writing software for the Amiga , and I'm doing Computer 
Science so I've a good excuse . I would like to make a M*A*S*H III with 
strategic maps and even more features. If you would like this to happen,
let me know as it could make the difference !

Thanks for bothering to read this waffle and I hope you waste many happy hours
annihilating your friends and the computer on the battlefield !

					Chris Gregan 
				
					   10/3/95


P.S. Um ... Anybody want to give me a job ? If anyone is looking for a hard 
working , fast learning programmer you could do a lot worse than 
contact me . I've 4 years experience programming AMOS, 1 years experience
programming 68000 Assembler( bit of a difference, I know..) & Modula 2. In 
the next couple of months I'll be learning C as well so I know what I'm at. 

>
