To:   Chess Players

From: Stuart Cracraft

Subj: GNU Chess release 4.0

-------------------------------------------------------------------

This is our GNU Chess 4.0 release. 

			-o-

GNU Chess 4.0 is:
	o a derivation of GNU Chess 3.1+
	o All known bugs fixed.
	o Source code split into managable modules.
	o Compilable with GNU CC and C compilers w/ unprotoize
	o Search algorithm cleaned up
	o Time control rewritten
	o Evaluation functions cleaned up & enhanced.
	o Illegal moves removed from opening book.
	o Code for external hash file reorganized and simplified.

  The package builds:

	gnuchessx  - xboard 2.0 compatible chess
	gnuchessc  - chesstool compatible chess
	gnuchess   - Curses-based chess
	gnuchessn  - IBM PC character set display chess
	gnuchessr  - ASCII chess

  These are also included, but could stand some improvement:

	gnuan      - Chess analysis program (to analyze games)
	game       - Postscript printout of all or part of a game
	postprint  - Postscript print of persistent hashfile
	checkgame  - check a game listing for illegal moves
	checkbook  - check the opening book for illegal moves

			-o-

The distribution is a series of Email messages comprising a split
uuencoded compressed tar file.

Combine these messages in alphabetical order based on their
subject lines. Strip off message headers and trailers and
then combine them to form one compact array of alpha-numeric 
records, the first line beginning with "begin ..." and the
last line being "end". Call the resulting file "U".

Now do:

	uudecode U
	uncompress gnuchess-4.0.pl44.tar.Z
	tar xf gnuchess-4.0.pl44.tar
	cd gnuchess-4.0

  1)	Read the file "src/Makefile" and "doc/gnuchess.1"
	(the latter with "nroff -man doc/gnuchess.1")
  2)	Adjust these variables in src/Makefile:
	  BINDIR	- this should be where the executables live:
			  for example, /usr/games
	  LIBDIR	- where the associated files live, /usr/games/lib
			  for example
	  OPT		- various options
	  CC		- the C compiler to use
	  CFLAGS	- appropriate flags for the C compiler
	  BOOK, HASH, LANG -- please don't adjust these.
  3)	Enter "make all<return>"
  4)	Enter "make install<return>"
  5)    Run gnuchessr (or "chesstool gnuchessc" or "xboard")

I hope you enjoy playing GNU Chess chess. Please give me feedback and
your ideas for how to make this a better program. We especially
appreciate bug-fixes with your bug-reports. This helps "train" the
lively mascot of Project GNU: GNU Chess 4.0.

	Stuart Cracraft
	Email: cracraft@rice-chex.ai.mit.edu
	Phone: 714-770-8532
