                        THE CHAOS EDITOR

Typed in by ???. Edited by PARASITE.


     Welcome  to the Chaos Strikes Back Editor,  the sequel  to
the Dungeon Master Editor.
     This  program  is  very similar to  the  original  Dungeon
Master  Editor  (it is in fact an  updated  version,  with  new
features,  which  has been altered to work with  Chaos  Strikes
Back)  and  will be familiar to Dungeon  Master  Editor  users.
These  instructions  will explain the new changes  as  well  as
providing  information  for  new  users.

     As  with the Dungeon Master Editor the Chaos Editor  works
by  altering a saved game file ("CSBGAME.DAT") and so does  not
affect  the  Chaos Master Disk.  It will allow you  to  do  the
following things to a saved game, produced when you save whilst
playing Chaos:

     1) Alter the map at will to create short cuts, new
passages etc.
     2) Alter it so  you  can open doors during the game
without using keys.
     3) Remove secret doors.
     4) Print out plans of all the ten levels in the Dungeon.

     The  best way to learn how to use this program is to  play
around  with it.  We advise only ever using it on a copy  of  a
saved game file,  in case you make a mistake and want to return
to the original position. The following explanation of the menu
bar should provide enough information on using the program.

DESK
     This contains an information box and any desk  accessories
that you might have loaded.  Warning: Desk accessories can only
be  assessed before loading or after closing a saved game  file
as they would otherwise corrupt the Editor screen.

FILE
     This contains the functions Load File,  Save  File,  Close
and  Quit.  The  Load File box automatically appears  when  you
first run the Editor.  It allows you to load a saved game  file
using the normal file selector box ("OK") or automatically load
the file "CSBGAME.DAT" and display Level 5 (the level you start
on)  for editing ("Auto").  Save File is the  opposite  ("Auto"
will  automatically save the file  "CSBGAME.DAT").  The  manual
method  allows you to change the name of the file if  you  wish
(you  can  then  build  up a library of  files  on  one  disk).
Warning: Chaos only recognises the file "CSBGAME.DAT".

EDIT
     This is similar to the old "Map" bar.  You can select  any
of the ten levels to view and edit on screen.  Editing involves
clicking  over  a section of the map to turn it into  either  a
(black)  wall or (white corridor).  The left mouse button  only
changes normal (blank) wall or corridor.  The right button will
change  anything.  Warning:  Chaos  is very  sensitive  to  map
alterations  and  may  crash if you  start  removing  triggers,
transporters  etc.  You  can do a lot by just  using  the  left
button  but the choice is there to change anything if you  want
(we know you won't be able to resist). You have been warned!

     Undo will remove your most recent change.

     Most  of  the  legend "building  blocks"  are  similar  to
Dungeon Master but with some changes:  Transporters is the  new
term  for  blue hazes (which you can see)  and  anything  which
teleports you around (you may see only normal corridor).  False
walls is the new term for the old secret doors.  Triggers is  a
new group which includes trigger points on the ground (some you
can  see,  some you can't) and monster regeneration points  but
also  include some objects and some  stationary  monsters.  All
these used to be in the general group Objects.
     Warning:  A  few objects don't appear on the map and  many
of  the  monsters carry objects including  keys.  Some  trigger
points are in fact objects and visa versa and also include some
monsters (which may have moved by the time you get there).  Our
advise  is  to use the maps only as a guide and to  expect  the
unexpected!

DOORS
     This  function  has been expanded to allow you  to  choose
which type of door or gate with button beside it to replace all
the ones in the dungeon.  You can choose between gate or  door,
normal,  old  or ornate or double (opens horizontally) or  not.
Gates allow you to throw and see through them. Doors are either
metal or wood,  depending on which level you are on. Most gates
and  wooden  doors can be broken by chopping  weapons  or  fire
balls and all can be opened at a distance by magic spells.
     Warning: Changing all the doors so they don't need keys is
obviously  very powerful and will ruin the game for you if  you
do this function to play the game from the beginning. We advise
you to only use it on old saved game files on levels which  you
have already completed.

WALLS
     Remove false walls allows you to automatically remove  all
false walls either in the level on screen or in the whole  map.
This is a lot quicker than doing it by hand.

PRINT
     Select  any level to print (not just the one on screen  as
before) by clicking on the appropriate menu bar. You can choose
to  either print just the map and level number or the  map  and
the whole legend.  This function uses the ALT-HELP screen  dump
routine  and so can be stopped by pressing  ALT-HELP.  You  may
want to put a CONTROL.ACC desk accessory on the disk to load in
with  the Editor so that you can make the screen dump work  for
your particular printer.

HELP
     Press  the HELP key or click on the Help menu bar to  view
this  file.  Press any key or click with the mouse to  go  from
page to page and press the ESC key to finish.

     We  hope  you  enjoy using this program  and  welcome  any
comments or criticisms you may have. Now go out there and crack
some skulls!
