Affidavit of Gideon Braver Vandenburg.........................March 3, 3024

Copies of this Affidavit shall be sent to the major news outlets on the
capital planets of the five Houses in the event of my untimely death.

This testimony was sworn on March 3, 3024 A.D. on Ander's Moon, in the
Draconis March of the Federated Suns. I hereby swear that all facts given
in this statement are true, upon my honor as a Vandenburg.

I must set down these facts lest the truth remain forever hidden, should
the McBrin family's plot succeed. I dictate this statement before I must
leave Ander's Moon - before the McBrins find me and have me executed on
some trumped-up charge.

The story really begins in 2137, when Clan Vandenburg and Clan McBrin
jointly settled the world known as Ander's Moon. Anders Moon sits on the
border between Kurita space and Davion space, occupying a position of no
great strategic importance in relation to a planet with no unusual natural

resources. Due to the tremendous valour of Ander's Moon warriors in the
Succession War, Prince Davion rewarded Ander's Moon with the Dukedom. This
was, and always has been, a cause of bitter rivalry between the Clans
Vandenburg and McBrin. Since the Council of Representatives elects the new
Duke upon the death of the old Duke, control of the Dukedom has passed from
Clan to Clan over the centuries. The investiture of a new Duke is an
occasion of great ceremony, wherein the Duke is annointed with oil from the
sacred Chalice of Herne, an ancient relic from old Terra. The Chalice has
come to symbolize the office of the Duke, and it is impossible to
legitimize the rule of a new Duke without the Chalice of Herne.

But enough of ancient history. Two days ago, I left Castle Vandenburg to
examine some of my father's holdings. While I was gone, a lance of bandit
Mechs dropped on Castle Vandenburg and smashed it to rubble. My father,
Duke Cameron Vandenburg, was slain in the assault, as were my mother and
sister. For some reason, the sensors gave no warning of the attack - I
suspect a traitor among the technicians must have sabotaged the equipment.
No one identified the bandit Mechs, and no one tracked them off-planet.
They have vanished into the trackless reaches of interstellar space.

According to witnesses, Jarris McBrin appeared and drove off the bandits
before they could wreak havoc. His timely appearance was seen by the
populace since a video news team just happened to arrive at the same time
as McBrin. He explained to the camera team that he was nearby "on
maneuvers" when he picked up the raiders on his sensors, and naturally he
raced to assist, but unfortunately he was too late to save the Duke. Lying
son of a snake! He must have bribed the news crew to arrive at the right
moment to witness a McBrin saving Vandenburgs from pirates, so that the
world would think him a hero.

When I returned and dug through the rubble to retrieve the bodies of my
family, I found that someone had taken the symbol of rule of Ander's Moon,
the sacred Chalice of Herne, from its place of honor in the great hall and
emptied the Vandenburg vaults of all the Clan's treasure. As I questioned
the servants who survived the attack, they all spoke with vivid terror of a
strange and powerful image: a skull with bat wings, which they had seen
emblazoned on the marauding bandit Mechs. Nothing more could they tell me.

The next day the Council of Representatives held an extraordinary meeting
to discuss the events at Castle Vandenburg and elect a new Duke.  To my
astonishment, Jarris McBrin denounced my father, Cameron Vendenburg, as a
traitor, claiming that he was in league with the pirates.  According to
Jarris, my father tried to double-cross the pirates and so they destroyed
him.  Worst of all, Jarris presented "proof" to back up his claims -
documents allegedly signed by my father, holotapes showing my father
dealing with the pirates, and other such material.  I tried to stop his
lies, but I was held back by the sergeant-at-arms.  Jarris went on to
denounce the Vandenburgs for losing the Chalice of Herne.  At the peak of
his tirade, he called for a freeze on the remaining Vandenburg assets,
which was overwhelmingly approved.  McBrin announced that he would use his
own resources to track down the pirates and recover the Chalice.

McBrin's motion to elect a new Duke failed by a narrow margin.  The Council
voted to postpone the election until I reach legal adulthood on my 23rd
birthday - April 8, 3029. At that time, the council will decide whether
Jarris McBrin or Gideon Braver Vandenburg becomes the new Duke of Ander's
Moon.

As I left the council chambers, I was still in a state of shock over the
whirlwind of events that had overturned my life. My family dead, home
destroyed, fortune stolen - everything I knew was lost. I must have been in
a daze, for I had no inkling of being followed until a starry explosion
burst into pain inside my head. As I remember them now, the next few
minutes are a blur of repeated blows and pain. I know now that I was the
object of an expert beating - though care was taken not to leave any
permanent marks on my body. As I lay on the ground, gasping for breath, the
leering face of Jarris McBrin rose before my eyes.

"You'll never be the Duke," he gloated. "I've made sure of that. The
Chalice is hidden light years from here, where you'll never find it. And if
you don't have the Chalice, you can't become the Duke, no matter what the
Council decides. But of course, I'll be there, having fortunately recovered
the Chalice from the pirates. How graciously I'll accept the Dukedom that
the cheering populace will demand I be given! Who would deny the Dukedom to
Jarris McBrin, the valiant hero who tracked down the pirates and destroyed
them, ending the Vandenburg's vicious conspiracy against Ander's Moon?"

"The Dukedom will never be yours, Jarris," I said, fighting for breath.
"I'll . . . stop you."

He laughed. "No, my dear Gideon, you'll die a pauper on some distant world.
I'd rather dispose of your body right now - but I might have to answer some
awkward questions. A pity you weren't at home when my friends 'dropped in'
on your miserable family . . . but no matter." His eyes narrowed. "you have
24 hours to get off the planet. Pray that I never run across you again, or
you too will wish that you had died with your family." And with that he and
his goons disappeared into the darkness while I struggled to get to my
hands and knees.

Somehow I managed to stumble to a combooth. I realized that there was
nothing further I could do on Ander's Moon, and the only way I could defeat
Jarris was to lay low for a while. I needed help, and there were precious
few people that I could turn to in my hour of need. I called Jordan Rowe,
leader of the Vandenburg faction in the Council. He took me to his home,
where we talked late into the night as he nursed my wounds.

Jordan's belief is that Jarris couldn't be the brains behind this operation
- it's too big, too well-funded for his brand of petty thievery. Jordan
mentioned certain information he had come across, rumors of radioactive
mineral deposits in the highlands, and of Kurita'a need for such fuel for
their insatiable war machine. He speculated that Kurita was behind the
whole plot, and that eventually their machinations would be exposed. But I
remain unconvinced - there's no proof of Kurita involvement, though Jordan
said he will try to find it.

Jordan has provided me with an old Jenner Mech and some C-bills, as well as
passage off the planet. He suggested that I travel under the abbreviated
name of Gideon Braver, to avoid any "complications" that might arise
because of the Vandenburg name. I'm not even sure where this old space scow
is taking me, but it doesn't matter. I'll find where Jarris has hidden the
Chalice. But it must be guarded, and guarded well, so I'll need to recruit
a lance of Mechs to help me in the battles ahead. But first I need money -
and for that, I have to become a mercenary, selling my war skills to the
highest bidder. Jordan has given me a copy of an old merc's manual, which
should tell me all I need to know.

Jarris McBrin, I am coming back, and not all the Mechs in the Star League
are enough to stop me.


(signed) Gideon Braver Vandenburg
