MERCENARY'S HANDBOOK

Notice: This handbook is entirely unofficial, and is under interdict in
multiple systems.  Do not reveal its contents, or even talk about its
existence, to anyone whom you don't completely trust.  A healthy dose of
paranoia will add to your life expectancy in this universe.

This handbook has been distilled, like guanga nut liqueur, from the
experiences of many mercs over the years. Here you'll find all the
essentials for being a successful mercenary - how to negotiate contracts,
How to get and keep the best Mechs, and the basics of how to operate a
Mech.

Of course, there's no substitute for experience. Once you've spent a few
years on the mercenary trail, gunning your Mech through a rain of shrapnel
and bolts of laser lightning, you'll have a knowledge of what it's like
that that no book can give you.  Maybe you can pick up a pointer or two
from these pages that will help you through some of the rough spots.  No
guarantees, though, in this universe, you're on your own.

THE YEARS 2014 - 3024 A.D.

After the Western Alliance enforced a world peace in 2014, the unification
of the world under it's banner was inevitable.  By 2086, most of the world
belonged to the Western Alliance.  The development of faster-than-light
travel in 2018 launched an era of interstellar colonization.  As the cost
of FTL travel dropped, colonization proceeded apace, so that by 2235, there
were more than 600 inhabited worlds.  In 2236 the colonies rebelled against
the domain of Terra, and by 2242 Alliance holdings had shrunk to a sphere
less than 60 light years across.  Over the next 50 years, the Exodus of
Earth's population took place and more than 1500 new planets were settled.

With the collapse of the Terran Alliance in 2314, hostilities broke out.
The establishment of the Terran Hegemony as a replacement sparked years of
war. In fact, the period until 2550 was marked by an almost continuous
series of small battles under the peculiarities of the Area Conventions.
The BattleMechs became the standard instrument of the highly ritualized
warfare during this time. The founding of the Star League in 2571 sparked
the Unification War; when that war ended in 2597, a period of relative
peace began.  The Star League developed the first FTL transmitters, cut-
ting the average communication time from Terra to the Periphery from 1 year
to less than five months.  The Star League went on for over 150 years in
peace before it was torn apart by treachery and rebellion. In 2785 the
First Succession War raged through known space, as the five lords of the
High Council all declared themselves ruler of the Star League. The Area
Conventions were set aside, and hundreds of millions perished in the brutal
warfare that ensued.  For the next several hundred years, a series of
Succession Wars brought the technology to a level barely above that of the
21st century.  The Warlords of the Succession States, unable to manu-
facture the advanced computers, fusion plants, and starships that their
civilization depended on, took to cannibalizing existing equipment to
maintain their armies.

Now that the Third Succession War is over, the new alliance between the
Federated Suns and the Lyran Commonwealth portends a new era of peace and
trade among the Successor States.

............................ from 'The Succession Wars: A History.'
                                   by Dr. B. Banzai,
                                   New Avalon Institute of Science

(Don't bet on it. The smart credits are betting on more employment for
mercs than ever. It's just the calm before the storm, pal.  Keep your
batteries charges, and your eyes open.)

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
THE SUCCESSOR STATES:

While you may have learned some of this in school, it's good to have it
repeated.  Know your employer - and your enemy.  They may be one and the
same.


The Federated Suns:

Founded in 2317 by Lucien Davion, then Prime Minister of New Avalon. A
member of the Davion family has led the Federated Suns for over 700 years.
Much of Davion's expansion in the last centuries has been at the expense of
Liao's Capellan Confederation.  Recently, Hanse Davion (Duke of New Avalon
and ruler of the Federated Suns) has formed an alliance with the Lyran
Commonwealth and is skirmishing heavily with Kurita's Draconis Combine. 
The ambitious Michael Hasek-Davion,  brother-in-law to Hanse, is Duke of
New Syrtis and ruler of the Capellan March.

House Davion has earned a reputation among mercs for being fair in con-
tracting negotiations and treating mercs quite well.  However, Hanse Davion
isn't known as 'The Fox' for nothing.  His tricky battle strategies have
put some lances in unexpected situations.  Mercs should look for possible
twists in the contract offered them before accepting a Davion Mission.

The Lyran Commonwealth:

Formed in 2341 by a combination of three small leagues; the Tamar Pact, the
Federation of Skye, and the Protectorate of Donegal.  The Lyran capital is
currently located at Tharkad.  Since the early 2400s the Lyran Common-
wealth has been ruled by the Steiners.  While the Lyrans have been losing
territory to the Draconis Combine, the Commonwealth remains a major power
due to the extreme wealth of some of it's planets.  Recently, their pact
with the Federated Suns has resulted in the recapture of several planets
held by Kurita.  The Lyran Commonwealth is ruled by the Archon Katrina
Steiner; her daughter Melissa is rumored to be betrothed to Hanse Davion,
promising the formation of a powerful alliance.

House Steiner offers generous contracts to mercenaries, using their great
wealth to attract some of the best mercs around.  However, the Lyran
Commonwealth suffers from a great deal of infighting, which reduces the
Lyran's military effectiveness.  Often forced to withdraw during combat,
the Lyrans just as often yield little good plunder.  The Archon is striving
to improve the quality of their military leadership, but it remains to be
seen how successful such efforts will be.

The Capellan Confederation:

The Capellan Confederation was created in 2366 by treaty agreement among
five smaller areas.  The early days of the Confederation were marked by
vicious internal debates and factionalism.  Eventually, Franco Liao managed
to pull things together as a compromise leader; his descendants have
consolidated their power over the major worlds of the Capellan Confeder-
ation.  The Capellans have always fought fiercely with the Free Worlds
League.  Over the centuries of bitter warfare, the Capellan Confederation
has come out on the short end, losing many of its most valuable territories
to House Davion and House Marik.  However, the now much shrunken Capellan
realm is heavily fortified, and they have been mostly peaceful for the past
fifty years.  Maximilian Liao currently rules the Capellan Confederation,
spending much effort in shrewd diplomatic maneuvering designed to bring the
lost glory back to Capella and especially to House Liao.

For mercs, it's enough to know that the Capellans are the weakest among the
Successor States.  While they tend to offer excellent terms when contracts
are available, there are many stories of Capellan contracts that looked
good at the start but soon turned sour.  When dealing with the Capellans,
more than one merc has found himself unable to collect on a technicality or
two.

The Draconis Combine:

Founded in 2319 after a brutal military campaign led by Shiro Kurita. The
vast reaches of the Draconis Combine are controlled by Kuritas to this day;
Takashi Kurita is the current iron-fisted ruler.  Luthien is now the
capital world, but New Samarkand still wields great power as the home base
for the Internal Security Force (ISF).

House Kurita issues many mercenary contracts, but they have widespread
reputation for being ruthless and arrogant.  They don't like to dicker, and
they drive a hard bargain.  Nonetheless, they do have a way of winning,
which keeps the mercs coming back for more contracts.

The Free Worlds League:

Created in 2271 by the Treaty of Marik, which unified the Grand Duchy of
Oriente, the Principality of Regulus, and the Marik Commonwealth.  Largely
based on merchant organizations, the Free Worlds League has maintained a
strong trade with the Successor States.  The Captain-Generalship of the
Free Worlds League has become a hereditary post held by House Marik.  The
Free Worlds League suffers from increasing balkanization, and Janos Marik
(current Captain-General) faces mounting difficulties as he tries to hold
things together from his capital on Atreus.

Contracts are common in the Free Worlds League, as the internal bickering
constantly erupts into combat.  There are often good contracts and rich
plunder available, but the unstable political situation makes it a
dangerous playground for the unwary merc.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
THE MERCENARY'S LIFE

There are many things you need to know to be a successful mercenary. More
details than there's space for here.  Besides, you'll learn the details
yourself through (sometimes bitter) experience.  These pages cover only the
essentials of what you can do dirtside.

Whenever you're moving around dirtside, you can use either a joystick, a
mouse, or the arrow keys on your console keyboard to move the pointer to
one of the icons.  Press the joystick fire button (button 1), the mouse
button, or the ENTER key to enter the section represented by the selected
icon.

The instructions that follow refer only to the keyboard commands, but the
mouse or joystick can be used equally well anywhere dirtside.

BLAZING ACES........................... ("A" in flames icon, upper left)

This is your personal database.  Of all your basic personal data, perhaps
the most important item is your wealth.  Like all mercs, you have a
software agent who synthesizes data off the NewsNet and posts readings of
how the various families feel about you.  These attitudes, based on
previous contracts you've handled for them, will of course affect your
contract negotiations.  Play it smart, pal.  Keep your eye on these
readings and don't expect too much from the families that hate you.

> CREW

This is your Lance command roster.  When you highlight the word CREW and
press ENTER, you'll see your current crew roster along with their gunnery
and pilot ratings, their wages, and the Mech they've been assigned by you.
Of course, if you're the only one in your lance, then you're the only one
that shows up.  You can change the Mechs assigned to each crew member, or
even dismiss a crew member if you're not happy with his performance.
Whenever you buy a new Mech, you'll have to assign it to a crew member
(including yourself); otherwise it won't be utilized.

Changing Mech assignments is simple.  Move to each pilot's Mech and
highlight it, then press ENTER and use the up and down arrow keys to choose
among the Mechs you have (one of the choices always available is to DISMISS
the crew member).  Once you have the Mech you want to assign to that pilot,
press ENTER again.  Note that if that Mech is already assigned to some
other pilot, then the two pilots swap Mechs.  Use the down arrow to
highlight the DONE button, then press ENTER to leave the crew roster.

> NEWSNET

This is your access to news items of interest selected by your Comstar news
filter on the interplanetary telecommunications network.  Personal messages
for you can also be found here.  The information you find here can be
crucial to getting the best contracts by finding out where the action is. 
If you have any other goals in mind, your news filter is also selecting
news items that can help you achieve your goals.

Use the arrow keys to highlight your choices, and press ENTER to execute
each choice.  PREVIOUS shows you any messages you've had before; NEXT shows
you the next message (if any); and DONE takes you back to your personal
database.

> DONE

Exit from your database and get back to wandering around dirtside.

MECH COMPLEX.................................. (Mech icon, center left)

This is where you go to view, repair, buy, sell, and re-arm your Mechs. Of
course, things are different on every planet.  Prices change depending on
local availability of supplies.  You won't be able to get Mechs on some
worlds.  The parts you need to repair your Mech might not be avail- able. 
So make the most of what's available, because you might not be able to get
it when you need it.  Those C-bills in your bank account won't do you any
good when you're staring down the muzzle of a PPC and wishing you'd
repaired that frontal armor.

> REVIEW MECHS

This shows a listing of the Mechs you own, with the pilots assigned to
them.  Select a Mech and press ENTER to take a closer look.  A picture of
the Mech appears with its basic armaments and speed listings.  Here you can
choose to do the following things:

>> Repair:  This shows a complete listing of the Mech's systems and their
current operational status.  As you cycle through the systems, if a repair
is required the cost is shown at the bottom of the screen. If you want to
repair that system, press ENTER.  Otherwise, press the up or down arrow key
to move to another system.  Note that each time you repair a system, it
gets a little better, moving up one damage class (from Junk to Heavy Damage
to Light Damage to Functional).  So if a system is Junk, the cost shown is
one third of what it takes to make it fully operational. Sometimes, the
parts needed to repair a system won't be available, and you'll have to wait
for some to come in or try another planet.  Or take your chances and go
into battle anyway.  Sure it's a risk, but so is life.

>> Repair All:  You can use this option to automatically repair all damaged
systems without having to select each one.  Note that the repair cost
displayed on this screen is only an estimate of the actual total repair
cost and the final bill may be lower or higher than estimated. This
function works like the regular REPAIR function; if you don't have enough
money or parts aren't available, you're out of luck.

>> Reload:  If you're fully loaded, you'll be told that your ammo bay is
full when you press ENTER. If you need ammo, the cost of reloading is
shown; you can choose to reload and pay the cost, or cancel without
reloading.

>> Sell:  If you want to sell your Mech, choose this item and press ENTER.
If there's an offer, it appears before you.  You can accept or reject it.
The price offered for your Mech depends on its condition and on the demand
for Mechs on that particular planet.  Some mercs can make a tidy sum just
buying Mechs where they're cheap, maybe fixing them up a little, and
selling them where they're scarce.  Of course, if you're not careful the
transportation costs will eat you alive.  Best to leave trading to the
merchants and concentrate on the business of war.

>> Done: Gets you back to the Review Mechs choices.

> EXTRA AMMO

While your mech can carry a full combat load of ammunition, when you're
going on a long campaign you'll need to stock extra ammo if you can afford
it.  On an extended campaign, you may go through several combats before you
can get back to a civilized place to repair and reload.  You'll feel more
than foolish if you use up all your ammo during the first combat, only to
face another - you'll feel dead.  So spend some C-bills on extra ammo
before heading out on one of those extended campaign contracts.

Choosing Extra Ammo shows a display of the different kinds of ammo
available for the different Mechs (if you own one of the Mechs listed, it
will be highlighted).  As you scroll down the list, the types of Mechs that
can use that ammo are displayed.  If you press ENTER, the ammo is purchased
and stored for future use.   You can sell back any extra ammo by using the
RIGHT ARROW key to highlight the ammo stored in the hold; prices change to
show what you will get if you sell (the merchants have to make a profit,
too!).  Press ENTER to sell the ammo.  Select DONE and press ENTER to
return to the Mech Complex choices.

> BUY MECHS

When you select this item, a list of the Mechs currently offered for sale
is displayed.  (Of course, sometimes there just aren't any Mechs for sale
at all.) Select any Mech and press ENTER to check out the price and con-
dition.  You'll see a picture of the Mech and its operational ratings.
Choose DAMAGE LEVELS to see the condition of the Mech and just how much
repair it's going to take before you can haul it onto the battlefield.
Select BUY to acquire the Mech for the price shown.  Select DONE to return
to the Mechs For Sale listings.  When you're finished shopping, choose DONE
to return to the Mech Complex choices.  Don't be surprised if the choice of
Mechs is limited or even nonexistent.  After all, these things are scarce
and valuable, and not every podunk planet has Mechs for sale.  The bigger
Mechs are even harder to find.

The smart merc will notice that Mechs are cheaper on some worlds.  When a
world is small and there is a shortage of Mechs, the price is higher - it
may be a great place to sell an extra Mech.  Keep your eye on the prices,
and don't let some backwater planet charge you too much.  Buy your Mechs
when they're cheap.  Remember, every C-bill you save could save your life
by enabling you to buy a little more ammo or some repairs.

> DONE

Select this item to return to your other dirtside activities.


CONTRACTS...............................(Family Crest icon, lower left)

On many planets (but not all) you'll find merc contracts offered by the
ruling House.  Select the Family Crest Icon to see the latest contract
postings.  Sometimes there's only one contract being offered; at other
times or places, there may be more.  Read each one carefully, and don't get
in over your head.  No matter how tough, experienced, and well armed you
are, there's always somebody better.

> REQUEST MISSION

Here's where you get your contracts.  Any current offerings available on
the planet are displayed one at a time.  Of course, contracts are not
always available, so you either wait around 'til one shows up or haul mass
to another planet with better opportunities.  Check the NewsNet for some
idea of where the action can be found.

If you've got a contract offer, don't leap at it right away - that's the
mark of a real amateur.  First, check out all the contracts being offered
by selecting the NEXT button and pressing ENTER.  If you don't see anything
you like, select LEAVE and press ENTER to go back to your other dirtside
activities.  Look carefully at the odds. Balance your forces against the
enemy forces.  Sure, you know your crew is good, but take care not to bite
off too big a job.

Once you've found a contract you like, then it's time to get the best
price.  You can negotiate over the price, the percentage of the confis-
cated equipment you'll get (assuming you win, that is), and how much up
front money you'll get for outfitting.  Since all haggling over contracts
is conducted via computer, all you do is use the arrow keys to point to the
item you want to negotiate and press ENTER.  The item turns yellow; use the
up arrow key to increase the number, and the down arrow key to decrease it.
 When you've got the number you want, press ENTER again. When you've
modified all the figures to your satisfaction, highlight the SUBMIT button
and press ENTER.  The figures change to show the counter- offer.  If the
counter-offer is not to your liking, change the figures again and re-submit
the contract.

Some families don't have a lot of patience, and they may just withdraw the
contract if you haggle too much.  And of course the terms vary depending on
the job and the reputation you have with the individual family. Experience
can guide you on just how flexible each House will be, and what kind of
terms you can expect.

MISSION TYPES

There are several different types of missions that might be outlined in the
typical mercenary contract.  The payoff conditions (what NewsNet types like
to call "victory") are different for each type, so pay care- ful attention
when you negotiate each contract.

A few missions, like suppressing a rebellion or eliminating enemy forces,
are simple, clean, and not too hard to figure - immobilize all enemy Mechs
and you win.  That's all there is to it.

When an enemy base is involved, things get more difficult.  You may be
asked to capture an enemy base - in order to rescue a kidnap victim, say,
or retrieve captured equipment. On such missions, you'll have to fight your
way to the base and ram it with one of your Mechs; as soon as you breach
the walls, surrender is immediate, and you should be able to collect on
your contract.  When your mission calls for you to destroy or disable an
enemy base, you'll have to fight your way through opposing Mechs and pound
the hostile base with several rounds of high-powered ammo.

If a contract call on you to defend a base against enemy forces, you must
immobilize all enemy Mechs that don't permanently flee the scene.  On
missions that involve crossing territory, like a reconnaissance raid, you
must move all the Mechs in your lance across the line indicated on the
Mission Briefing Screen, fighting off enemies as you go in order to
collect.  Conversely, some types of contracts, such as the relief of
engaged forces, require that you prevent enemy forces from crossing a
dashed line indicated on the Mission Briefing Screen (also shown on the
Command Screen) - again, you'll have to immobilize any hostile Mechs that
don't flee.

Extended campaigns are the most difficult.  Each one involves two or three
separate encounters; in between them you'll have a chance only to re-arm
with any extra ammo you brought along at the start of the campaign, and to
make field repairs to your Mechs.  There will be no chance to return to a
civilized area for extensive repairs - unless and until the campaign is
successfully concluded.

> LEAVE

Get back to your other dirtside business.


TRAVEL.......................................(DROPSHIP Icon, upper right)

For those farm boys out there who may not know the ins and outs of
interstellar travel, someone should lay out the basics for you.  First,
there are jumpships and dropships.  Dropships are those round metal beasts
you see standing on every launch pad throughout known space.  They take you
off planet and carry you out to the jump points where the jumpships sit. 
The distance from a planet to it's system's jump point varies depending on
the size of the star, position of the planet in the system, and velocity of
the dropship.  That means it can take you anywhere from a few days to three
weeks to get there.

Once the dropship gets to the jump point, it links up with a jumpship.
Jumpships use the Kearny-Fuchida drive system to make the near instant-
aneous jumps to another jump point.  Jumpships are limited to single jumps
of around 30 light-years.  So to travel to a system 60 light-years away
requires two jumps.  The jumpship must recharge its engines in between
jumps with a device called a jump sail.  The recharge process takes about
one week.

So, to travel to a system 60 light-years away requires at least one week
for the jump, plus the amount of time needed to travel to and from the jump
point in the dropship.

USING THE STAR MAP

You're shown a map of the major planetary systems throughout known space -
it's very helpful in making travel decisions.  Here you can make your
travel arrangements, find out a bit about the planets you're traveling to,
determine the cost of your journey, and go.

The name of the highlighted planet is shown in the upper left corner of the
screen.  The planet's climate (for example, tropical or ice) is shown to
the right of the name, and the population is shown in the upper right
corner of the screen.  Below is a brief description of the planet as found
in Stoner's Galactic Travel Guide, 4th Edition.  The icon of the ruling
House for the planet is shown on the right hand side of the screen.  Below
this icon appears the cost in C-bills to travel to a designated planet.
Note that travel costs are based on several factors: number of Mechs, crew,
extra ammo being transported, and distance traveled.  You pay by the jump.
A planet two jumps away doubles the cost (mechs, personnel, ammo).  Your
current wealth is shown below the cost.

Use the up and down arrow keys to highlight either the name of the planet
in the upper left corner, or the TRAVEL, PLANETS, or CANCEL button.

The left arrow key will move the cursor (square) off the current planet
selection and free it up so you can use all four arrow keys to move the
cursor around on the map.  Placing the cursor on a planet and pressing
ENTER causes that planet to be selected.  All data on the screen will
change to reflect the new choice. 

> TRAVEL

When you've chosen your destination, highlight this button and press ENTER
to travel there.  Your wealth will be reduced by the amount displayed under
cost.  All the other options on the travel screen simply display informa-
tion about the planets, you don't actually go there until you select the
TRAVEL button and press ENTER.

> PLANETS

Use this button to find a particular planet.  Highlight this button and
press ENTER to get a list of the different Houses.  Select the House you
want using the arrow keys, then press ENTER.  A list of available planets
in that House appears.  Select your destination using the arrow keys; press
ENTER when the planet you want is highlighted.  This will update the
display to reflect information for the selected planet.

You can also select a desired planet directly if you know its name.  When
Planet Name is highlighted, press ENTER, and the box will clear.  Type in
the name of the planet you're looking for and press ENTER.  If the name you
typed is not recognized, the last selected planet will reappear in the box.
(Spelling is important).

> CANCEL

Return to dirtside activities.

THE BAR .............................(Hand with Glass Icon, center right)

Here you can get some refreshment and maybe catch some useful rumors - the
kind of things that don't appear on the NewsNet.  And, of course, all the
best Mech pilots hang out here between jobs.

> ORDER DRINK

Sometimes, the bartender will slip you a little information and maybe some
answers to your questions.  Go ahead, be friendly - it could save your
life.

> RECRUIT CREW

If there are any mech pilots looking for work, you can bet they'll be here
at the bar.  Check out their references, look over their skill ratings.
Watch their pay rates, and remember that you'll have to shell out that much
every month.  And when you're just a rookie, don't expect the best pilots
to sign up with you.  If you want to hire a particular merc, just highlight
YES and press ENTER.  Selecting NO puts you back into circulation at the
bar.

> LEAVE

Go outside and look for other dirtside activities.

GAME OPTIONS...............................(Mirrored "M" Icon, lower right)

Here's where you can take care of some housekeeping matters, like storing
data or altering your personal data environment.

> SAVE GAME

If you want to check out of reality and enter the simulation of 20th
Century Earth life, choose SAVE GAME.  You'll be prompted to enter a name
for your "saved game".  Choose a name with, at most, eight characters.  The
program adds the extension .GAM automatically.  This will effect the
storing of all current data on your career, and you can use the same name
as your "password" when you want to return to the reality of the 30th
century, just the way you left it.  You can save and resume up to 12
separate "games". (You can actually save as many as you like, but only the
first 12 games found in the current directory will be displayed when you go
to restore a game later!!).

> RESTORE GAME

Brings you back to the real world of the 30th century.  Choose the "game"
that you want to "restore" and press ENTER.

> RESTART GAME

Choose this option to start your career as a merc all over again.

> TURN SOUND OFF/ON

Controls the sound output to your cockpit when you're in a Mech, and any
other incidental music.

> DETAIL LEVEL

Allows you to adjust the complexity of the combat simulation display to
suit your particular computer console.  Especially on slower computers,
it's important to match the simulation to the speed of you processing
hardware for maximum control and maneuverability.  Your choices are HIGH,
MEDIUM, and LOW.  A HIGH detail level shows all landscape items such as
mountains and ridges.  Choosing LOW will remove these items from the
display, allowing for faster updates to the screen.  (Nobody wants to fight
a war in slow motion!!!)

> EXIT TO DOS

Leave the program and visit the mysterious dimension of MS-DOS.  See
"Getting Started" to get back to reality.

> CONTINUE

Return to normal dirtside activities.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
MECHS

Here are the basics of owning and operating a Mech.  And no, they don't
teach you this stuff in school, so don't think you know it all.

BATTLEMECHS 101

First a quick refresher course.  BattleMechs, the most powerful war
machines ever built, dominate the battlefields of the Succession Wars. 
These huge man-shaped vehicles are faster, more maneuverable, better armed,
and carry heavier weaponry than any other combat unit.  Equipped with
Particle Projection Cannons (PPCs), lasers, rapid fire AutoCannons (ACs),
and missiles, these behemoths pack enough firepower to flatten everything
but another Mech.

Mechs break down into four basic categories: light, medium, heavy, and
assault.  Light Mechs range in weight from 20 tons to almost 40 tons.  They
are the most inexpensive and common type found on the battlefield today.
Light Mechs are used mostly in reconnaissance.  Their speed and jump
capability usually allow them to skirt heavy fighting to get a look at
enemy formations or to perform deep penetration raids.

Medium Mechs are the real workhorses of the armies of the Inner Sphere.
They range in weight from 40 tons to almost 60 tons.  They provide a wide
variety of design and usually end up doing the real dirty work.

Heavy Mechs range in weight from 60 up to 80 tons.  They are usually
piloted by commanders and the most experienced warriors and are the major
force on the battlefield.  With their capacity to give and take enormous
amounts of damage, their deployment and use in combat is critical.

Assault Mechs are the lords of the battlefield.  Although rare, and hence
often kept out of battle altogether, one assault Mech is equal to a whole
lance of other Mechs.  They range in tonnage from 80 to 100.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
MECH CONTROLS

When you're in the cockpit of your Mech, you'll be able to control your
weapons, move your Mech, get status readouts on yourself and your
opponents, and control the other Mechs in your lance.

THE COCKPIT

The top area of the screen shows the battlefield as displayed through the
external video sensors of your Mech.  The image display can be sped up by
selecting a lower DETAIL LEVEL through the GAME OPTIONS menu (see above);
this removes the mountains and ridges from the screen, resulting in a
faster screen display.

The Direction Indicator or compass is shown in the display area, marked off
in 5 degree increments for a full 360 degrees.  The top arrow indicates the
direction of your Mech's torso, while the bottom arrow shows the direction
your Mech is heading.  The ENTER key on the combat keyboard controls your
targeting reticule.  Each time you press ENTER, a new target is acquired
and displayed, showing current damage levels as detected by your sensor
array.  There are TWO targeting rectangles around friendly Mechs, and ONE
rectangle around enemy Mechs.  This is important enough to repeat: ONE
RECTANGLE - ENEMY MECHS, TWO RECTANGLES - OUR  MECHS.  In a military
organization, forgetting this kind of information is a court-martial
offense.

The display may be magnified by a factor of 1X, 2X or 3X by pressing the Z
key to Zoom in.  When your view is magnified, the targeting reticule is
disabled.

The crosshairs may be moved by pressing the M or N keys, to move the
crosshairs up and down, or the < and > keys to twist the Mechs torso left
and right.  Also, the left and right arrow keys may be used to pivot or
steer your Mech in those directions.  If you need to get straightened out
in a hurry, the A key will auto-align the feet and torso of your Mech.

WEAPON STATUS BOARD

Your weapon status board is shown next to the map display.  On some Mechs
the weapon status board is on the left, while other models place it on the
right.  Your weapons are listed here.  The lights next to each weapon show
whether the weapon is attached to the Automatic Weapons System (AWS), and
the one for the currently selected weapon is lit.  Pressing the trigger
(spacebar or fire button) will fire this weapon.

Ammo (if the weapon requires it) is listed with its current status next to
the weapon name.  The final letter indicates the range of the weapon -
Short, Medium, or Long.  When the target is out of range, these letters are
black.  When the target is at long range for the weapon, the letters change
to red; at medium range, yellow, and at short range, blue.

Weapons that are reloading or recharging have their names shown in red, and
cannot be fired during this time.  A weapon shown in black is unusable, due
either to a lack of ammo or damage.  To select a weapon, you may either
press the corresponding number key (1 for the first weapon, 2 for the
second, and so forth, from top to bottom), or press the - and + keys on the
number keypad to cycle back and forth through the listed weapons.

Pressing W will toggle the Automatic Weapons System on and off.  AWS does
two things: it automatically chooses the next available weapon after the
current weapon has been fired, and it provides a second trigger.

When the AWS is ON, the letters AWS appear in the display over the weapons
list, and all weapons attached to the AWS are surrounded by a highlight
box.  These are the weapons the AWS will look at when choosing the next
weapon to fire.

To remove a specific weapons from the AWS control, use the + and - keys to
advance to the weapon to remove, and press O (the letter 'O').  The
highlight around the weapon light will disappear and the AWS will skip over
the weapon.  To attach a weapon to the AWS, use the same procedure. The
letter 'O' works as a toggle for ON and OFF.

The TAB key works as a second trigger for the AWS weapons.  Pressing TAB
will cause all of the available weapons under AWS control to fire at once.

To override the AWS and select specific weapons, press that weapons
corresponding number key.  You may also use the - and + keys to advance or
back up to next weapon regardless of whether it's AWS controlled or not.

MAP DISPLAY

At the center of your cockpit is your map display.  Toggle between
topographical map view and a radar view by pressing the 'T' key.  The topo
map shows the terrain with elevations (the highest points in red), your
mech as a black dot (always at the center), other Mechs on your team as
white, and enemy Mechs as red dots.  The topo map orientation always has
NORTH (0 degrees) at the top of the display, regardless of your Mech's
orientation.  The radar map shows you the Mechs in your front arc. Pressing
the 'R' key zooms the radar display.

SENSORS AND DAMAGE INDICATORS

Just above the map display are a set of indicator lights which give you
information about the status of your major systems.  From left to right
they are Sensors, Gyros, Engines, and Life Support.  These lights change
color for different levels of damage: green - functional, yellow - light
damage, red - heavy damage, black - destroyed.  A warning tone is sounded
when one of these systems becomes damaged.

> SENSORS are for targeting and detecting damage of other Mechs.  When
damaged, your sight will not always be visible and you will not always be
able to target other Mechs.  Also, the topo map will not be visible when
your sensors are completely damaged.

> GYROS are for balance during movement.  When they're damaged you move
slower; when they're destroyed, you can't move at all.

> ENGINES drive everything.  If they become damaged, heat buildup is
increased, and if they're destroyed, you shut down.  During shutdown, your
only option is the Command Screen to lead your lance, or retreat (ESC).

> LIFE SUPPORT keeps the heat level in the cockpit down, and provides
oxygen circulation so you can breathe.  Although you can survive with this
system damaged, you'll die without it, no matter how long you can hold your
breath.

HEAT INDICATOR

Next to the map display is your heat indicator, which is of extreme
importance during combat.  If your heat build-up is too great (when you've
fired your weapons too fast or are under heavy fire, or when you've over-
used your jump-jets), your fusion reactor will shut down to prevent a
catastrophic melt-down.  A shutdown means you can't move, fire, or do much
of anything (except use the Command and Damage Screens) until your heat has
fallen to workable levels.  Experienced pilots soon learn to pace their
weapon usage to avoid this situation.  Of course, weapons like machine
guns, missiles, and autocannon contribute little to heat build-up, while
PPCs and Lasers add vast amounts of heat waste.

Your heat dissipates based on the number of working heat sinks your Mech
has.  In arctic conditions your heat will dissipate about twice as fast.

COMMAND SCREEN

Pressing 'C' displays the Command Screen, where you'll see a strategic
overview of the entire area of engagement showing terrain features and the
disposition of known forces.  From here you can command the other crew
members of your lance ( provided you have some).

Your Mech is shown as a BLACK or WHITE square, depending on the type and
color of the terrain; your crew members Mechs appear as small icons
(matching the icons shown for each crew member to the right of their names
on the crew screens), enemy Mechs are RED; bases are BLUE.  When a hostile
Mech disappears around the side of a mountain and goes out of your radar's
effective range, a blinking RED square marks its last known position until
it reappears.

(Note to CGA computer console operatives: Your Mech and your bases will
usually appear as WHITE squares, depending on the type and color of
terrain; enemy Mechs will appear as BLACK or contrasting squares.)

Mountains are multicolored; ridges are one or two colors.  It's important
that you distinguish between the two, since Mechs can walk over ridges, but
must go around - or jump over - mountains.

From the individual Crew Screens (at the bottom of the command screen), you
can review the members of your lance and issue them new instructions. The
first three items (displayed in BLUE) provide general information: crew
member, Mech, and current status (what he's doing).  The next two lines,
displayed in WHITE, show the last order given to the crew member and his
current target.  The last two lines, shown in GREEN, are weapon and systems
status for the crew member's Mech.

Use the arrow keys to move among the choices (right and left for crew
members, up and down for options), and press ENTER to activate a choice.
The options available are described below.

> Orders

Orders are activated by selecting the current order (such as Act On Own)
and pressing ENTER.  A list of possible of possible orders is then
presented.  Scroll through the list with the arrow keys until the one you
want is highlighted and press ENTER.  Every order except ACT ON OWN
requires you to specify a target or location.  A line appears from the crew
member's Mech to its current target or destination, which is highlighted by
a targeting box.  Use the arrow keys to change the target.  If its a
location (Ambush, Defend, Move), the keys will move the targeting box
anywhere on the battlefield.  If its a Mech or Base, the arrow keys will
cause the targeting box to jump between possible targets.  When the
targeting box is where you want the crew member to go, press ENTER.

Remember that your crew members are human.  If you give them a command that
looks like suicide, they may back out, or they may not be able to get to a
location because of superior firepower in the way.  Know the limitations of
your crew and their equipment.

>> Act On Own: Your crew members are automatically set to this order when
they start a mission.  When acting on this command, they'll do their best
to achieve the goals of the mission.  For example, if the mission is to
destroy a base, that base will be their main target and they will only
engage enemy Mechs if they get in the way.  You may change their target
under this command by highlighting the current target listed and pressing
ENTER.  Use the arrow keys to switch targets and press ENTER when done. 
This will cause them to immediately charge the enemy you select.

>> Ambush: Under this command the crew member will go to the specified
location and wait until the enemy is near or until his Mech is spotted.  He
will then attack the nearest enemy.  This works best, of course, in a
situation where the Mech cannot be seen by the enemy (such when it's behind
a mountain.

>> Defend: A defend command directs the crew member to go to the indicated
location and wait.  The Mech may move in a small patrol circle while
waiting.  When the enemy approaches the location, the crew member will
attack.

>> Attack Enemy: Causes the crew member to move toward a specific Mech or
base and attack when in range.

>> Move (attack): Under this command, the crew member will move toward a
specific location, attacking any enemy encountered along the way.

>> Move (avoid): This command is good for directing crew members to go
behind enemy lines to attack a base while other Mechs draw the enemy away,
or perhaps to get across the territory as fast as possible with as little
damage as possible.  With this command, the crew member will move toward
the indicated location, avoiding any enemy engagements if possible.

>> Damage: This gives a status report on the crew member's Mech's damage
levels, showing the internal and external condition and the condition of
important subsystems like the engines, gyros, sensors, and life support.
The words on the list change color to show different levels of damage:
green for functional, yellow for light damage, red for heavy damage, and
black for destroyed.

>> Weapons: This shows the current status of all weapons systems.

Press <Q> or <Space> to return to the Main Battle Screen.

DAMAGE SCREEN

Press <D> to display a screen sh=owing the damage to your Mech.  Damage
levels are shows for all areas, and the damage is shown visually to the
right.  You may press <C> to get the Command Screen or <Q> or <Space> to
return to the cockpit display.

Pressing <E> when you're in the cockpit brings up a display of the
targetted Mech's damage levels (whether friend or foe) as determined by
your sensors and extrapolated by your on-board computer systems.  The
controls are the same as for your own Damage Screen.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
IN BATTLE

Once again, there's no substitute for experience when it comes to learning
the merc's trade.  But you probably won't live long enough to gain
experience if you don't learn quickly how to use your jumpjets, and pick up
at least a few basic techniques for surviving combat.

JUMPJETS

Jumpjets enable you to avoid enemy firestorms and to scale and traverse
mountains.  In other words, they can mean the difference between collecting
on a contract and ending up a smoking ruin of twisted metal.

You control your jumpjets from the cockpit.  Press <J> to activate
jumpjets.  The up and down arrow keys are your thrust controls.  Press the
up arrow and hold it down to engage and maintain upward and forward thrust.
Do the same with the down arrow key to thrust straight up into the air.
While in the air, use the right and left arrow keys to turn.  To land,
simply release the active thrust key and use your down arrow key
intermittently during your descent to soften your landing.

Always keep an eye on the two gauges in the lower right corner of the
screen.  The vertical bar indicates how much power is available for using
your jumpjets.  The light above the gauge glows red when there's
insufficient power available for activating jumpjets; when it glows green,
you're powered up to go flying.  The hairline on the gauge indicates the
amount of power you need to activate the jets.

Always take care to set your Mech down before your available power runs
out, indicated by the bar inside the jump gauge - if you run out of thrust
while you're airborne, you'll crash land and damage your Mech.

Remember, too, that your jumpjets contribute to heat build-up in your Mech,
which can lead to reactor shut-down; (see "Heat Indicator" above).

COMBAT TIPS

Here are a few tips to help you through your first few missions -

Aim for the head of enemy Mechs, or try shooting off their legs. Either
way, you'll have to aim carefully, but the results can be more gratifying -
and waste less ammo - than simply hammering away at the heavily armored
torso of a hostile Mech.

The rear armor on a Mech is weaker than that in front.  This is true of
both friendly and hostile Mechs.  So don't let enemy Mechs get behind you -
and you can bet your next contract that they'll try to - and DO get behind
them (if you can) and blast away.

Walking in one direction while turning your torso in another direction
makes it difficult for enemy Mechs draw a bead on you.  If you charge
straight on at a hostile Mech, you're going to take a lot of firepower
straight on, too. So try the zig-zag approach, laying down fire as you go.

Use your AWS to put missiles and lasers on separate triggers.  If you fire
a laser right behind a missile, you might destroy it in mid-flight and so
waste both shots.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
BATTLEMECH DESCRIPTIONS

A merc needs to know his equipment.  If you want to survive, you'll learn
fast about Mechs and their capabilities.  The following technical readouts
give you a good idea of each Mech's capabilities.

LCT-1V Locust

One of the most common of all Battlemechs, the Locust model is found almost
everywhere.  Originally designed as a light recon vehicle, it's been
pressed into service for general warfare in many places. Lightly armed and
very swift, its weakness is its small size, making it vulnerable to attacks
and unable to carry heavier weapons.  However, many a larger Mech has been
taken down by a well piloted Locust.

Mass: 20 tons.
Cruising Speed: 86.4 KPH
Maximum Speed:  129.6 KPH
Jumpjets: none
Jump Capacity: none
Armor: 1/Star Slab
Armament: One medium Martell Laser
          Two Sperry/Browning Machine Guns
Manufacturer: Bergan Industries

     CODE CHECK                  AUTHORIZATION CODE
     Whiskey Delta Tango         Night Stalker
     Xray Zulu Charlie           Future Guard
     Foxtrot Echo Delta          Red Dawn


JR7-D Jenner

This Mech is a fast, agile workhorse with enough firepower to mix with the
heavier Mechs.  Its jump capacity makes it extremely mobile and especially
dangerous in fast hit-and-run actions.  Without hands, Jenners rely on
their SRMs for short range punch.

Mass: 35 tons
Cruising Speed: 75.6 KPH
Maximum Speed:  118.8 KPH
Jumpjets: 3 Smithson Lifters
Jump Capacity: 150 meters
Armor: Starshield
Armament: Four Arga 3L medium Lasers
          One Thunderstroke SRM-4
Manufacturer: Diplan Mechyards

     CODE CHECK                  AUTHORIZATION CODE
     Foxtrot Oscar Xray          Duck Soup
     Sierra Echo Xray            Dragon Tail
     Juliet Alpha Sierra         Yellow Bird


PXH-1 Phoenix Hawk

The Phoenix Hawk is a common, versatile Mech that has become a staple of
Star League Recon Forces.  Its armor is heavy enough to withstand sustained
combat, while its array of lasers makes it a formidable opponent.

Mass: 45 tons
Cruising Speed: 64.8 KPH
Maximum Speed:  97.2 KPH
Jumpjets: 2 Pitban 9000's
Jump Capacity: 180 meters
Armor: Durallex Light
Armament: One Harmon heavy laser
          Two Harmon medium lasers
          Two M100 machine guns

     CODE CHECK                  AUTHORIZATION CODE
     Papa Foxtrot                Tin Man
     Echo Golf Alpha             Black Witch
     Victor Victor               Red Arrow


SHD-2H Shadow Hawk

This medium sized Mech has diverse armament to make it useful in a wide
variety of battle situations.  The Shadow Hawk can handle both long and
short-range engagements with equal facility. While its jump capacity is
limited, its unusual to have any jump capacity at all in a Mech this large.

Mass: 55 tons
Cruising Speed: 54.0 KPH
Maximum Speed:  86.4 KPH
Jumpjets: 3 Pitban LFT-50's
Jump Capacity: 90 meters
Armor: Maximillian 43
Armament: One Armstrong J11 autocannon (20)
          One Holly Long Range Missile pack (5)
          One Holly Short Range Missile pack (2)
          One Martel Model 50 medium laser
Manufacturer: Lang Industries Inc.

     CODE CHECK                  AUTHORIZATION CODE
     Lima Golf                   Slasher
     Romeo Alpha Zulu            Glory Boy
     Foxtrot Alpha Delta         Bad Dream


RFL-3N Rifleman

This Mech was designed as a medium fire-support vehicle with heavy armor
and powerful long-range strike capability.  Its comparatively low mass
makes it less effective in close combat against large Mechs, and the pilot
is well advised to avoid head-on confrontation with heavy Mechs like the
Warhammer.

Mass: 60 tons
Cruising Speed: 43.2 KPH
Maximum Speed:  64.8 KPH
Jump Jets: none
Jump Capacity: none
Armor: Kallon Royalstar
Armament: Two Magna MKIII heavy lasers
          Two Magna MKII medium lasers
          Two Imperator-A autocannons
Manufacturer: Kallon Industries 

     CODE CHECK                  AUTHORIZATION CODE
     Charlie Charlie             Black Jack
     Hotel Oscar Tango           Red Lance
     Foxtrot Alpha Romeo         Sakhara


WHM-6R Warhammer

This Mech is one of the most dangerous and powerful Mechs ever placed in
the field.  Its twin Donal PPCs give it superb firepower against heavy
weaponry, and its lasers and machine guns make it a threat against infantry
and light support vehicles.

Mass: 70 tons
Cruising Speed: 43.2 KPH
Maximum Speed:  64.8 KPH
Jump Jets: none
Jump Capacity: none
Armor: Leviathon Plus
Armament: Two Donal PPCs
          Two Martel medium lasers
          Two Martel small lasers
          One Holly short range missile pack (6)
          Two Sperry/Browning machine guns
Manufacturer: StarCorp Industries

     CODE CHECK                  AUTHORIZATION CODE
     Tango India November        Grave Walker
     Papa Bravo                  Mad Dog
     Whiskey Alpha Romeo         Silver Hawk


MAD-3R Marauder

This heavy attack Mech is one of the most efficient fighting machines in
existence.  The Valiant Lamellor armor provides excellent protection;
unfortunately, the secret of its manufacture has been lost, and replacement
armor is not as effective. The Marauder is equally effective close in and
at long range.

Mass: 75 tons
Cruising Speed: 43.2 KPH
Maximum Speed:  64.8 KPH
Jump Jets: none
Jump Capacity: none
Armor: Valiant Lamellor
Armament: Two Magna Hellstar PPCs
          Two Magna MKII medium lasers
          One GM Whirlwind autocannon
Manufacturer: General Motors

     CODE CHECK                  AUTHORIZATION CODE
     Bravo Alpha Delta           Renegade
     Mike Alpha Sierra           Small Room
     Zulu Alpha Romeo            Black Barron


BLR-1G BattleMaster

This Mech is one of the largest and arguably the most powerful ever
fielded. Its firepower is staggering, particularly at close range. While
the Battle- Master is slow, it's virtually unstoppable by light Mechs, and
it poses a difficult problem even for heavy Mechs.

Mass: 85 tons
Cruising Speed: 43.2 KPH
Maximum Speed:  64.8 KPH
Jump Jets: none
Jump Capacity: none
Armor: Star Guard IV
Armament: One Donal PPC
          Six Martel medium lasers
          One Holly short range missile pack (6)
          Two Sperry/Browning machine guns
Manufacturer: Hollis Industries

     CODE CHECK                  AUTHORIZATION CODE
     Charlie Alpha Tango         Snow Fire
     Hotel Oscar Tango           Screaming Eagle
     Bravo Alpha Bravo           Grim Jim


GLOSSARY

AFFS:  The Armed Forces of the Federated Suns

Autocannon: Rapid-firing projectile weapon

BattleMech: A large military vehicle using two "legs" for its main mode of
ground movement, often in more or less humanoid appearance. BattleMechs
have been in use for hundreds of years, and are the main instrument of
ground forces throughout the Star League.  Armament, size, and other
capabilities can vary considerably.

Black Widows: Famous mercenary company of Wolf's Dragoons, led by Natasha
Kerensky (also known as Black Widow).

Chalice of Herne: Symbol of rulership on Ander's Moon.  Said to be the
actual chalice used by Herne the Hunter, an ancient forest god of old
Terra.  The chalice is used in the ceremony in anointing a new Duke on
Ander's Moon.

Comstar:  The interstellar communications network, founded by Jerome Blake
in the late 2700s.

Davion:  Ruling House of the Federated Suns.

DCMS:  Draconis Combine Mustered Soldiery.

Dropship:  A spaceship used for ground to orbit travel.

Eridani Light Horse:  A mercenary group dedicated to preserving the ways,
traditions, and honor of the Star League Armed Forces.  They work only with
those they admire and who also keep alive the old ways.  They are currently
in service to House Davion.

Gyroslugs:  Self-propelled projectiles fired by gyrojet weapons.  The
gyrojet or "cone rifle" is a recoilless projectile weapon more closely
related to a rocket launcher.  It fires projectiles that do not drop off in
velocity over distance and deliver explosive shells at their destination.

Hanse Davion:  Ruler of the Federated Suns.

Hansen's Roughriders:  A mercenary unit serving House Steiner for the last
seven years.

Heat Sinks:  Cooling devices that pass heat build-up inside operating Mechs
through the armor to the outside air, where it is usually cooler.  Heat
sinks may be located anywhere on a Mech, but usually occupy the torso or
legs.

Holovid:  Holographic video, or three-dimensional television.

House:  Refers to one of the five noble houses whose members control the
Successor States.

HUD:  Heads-up display.

ISF:  House Kurita's Internal Security Force.

Jumpship:  A spaceship capable of interstellar travel.

Kurita:  Ruling House of the Draconis Combine.

Lance:  A group of fighting Mechs and their pilots.

Laser Pistol:  small laser weapon with high power output weighing about
1000 grams.

LAW:  Light Anti-vehicle Weapon.  A development of the portable rocket
launcher and small support weapons, LAWs and V(ery)-LAWs can fire only
once, after which they are discarded.

LCAF:  Lyran Commonwealth Armed Forces.

Liao:  Ruling House of the Capellan Confederation.

Lostech:  The lost technology of the ancient Star League.

LRM:  Long Range Missiles.

Marik:  Ruling House of the Free Worlds League.

Mech:  See BattleMech

Mech Complex:  An industrial area where Mechs are repaired and serviced.

Merc:  Short for mercenary.

Mercenary:  A free-lancer who hires out his military services to various
organizations.

MIIO:  The Ministry of Intelligence, Investigations, and Operations is the
name given to various departments and secret agencies that the Davion
government has created over the centuries to gather information and to act
covertly against their enemies.

MI6:  The name given to teams of elite saboteurs and terrorists who conduct
missions into enemy realms.  These "hit teams" carry out missions ranging
from abductions and assassinations to demolitions and random murders to
terrorize civilian populations.  Any use of the hit teams requires Prince
Davion's approval.  Because the Federated Suns' peace-loving propaganda is
so successful, few outside MI6 or MIIO realize to what extent Davion
condones terrorist activities.

Natasha Kerensky:  Leader of the Black Widows.

Needlegun:  One of the most vicious weapons ever developed.  Instead of
firing a single bullet or burst of energy, it fires a spray of plastic
flechettes.  Needlegun ammunition consists of a small block of plastic that
the gun shreds and fires out at high velocity.

Periphery:  Hundreds of worlds on the edge of the Star systems of the Inner
Sphere; many have fallen into barbarism.

PPC:  Particle Projection Cannon.  A particularly powerful long-range
weapon mounted on some Mechs.

Quintus Allard:  Head of Davion counter-intelligence.

Smithson's Chinese Bandits:  Famous mercenary unit currently working for
House Marik.

Solaris VII:  The gaming world, where Mechs compete for fun and profit.

SRM:  Short-Range Missiles.

Star League:  The ruling interstellar government from 2571 to 2751.

Steiner:  The ruling House of the Lyran Commonwealth.

Stun Lance:  A full-sized martial arts lance that delivers a powerful
neural impulse on impact, designed to render the target unconscious.

Subhash Indrahar:  Director of the ISF (Kurita Internal Security Force)

Successor States:  The five main governments formed after the collapse of
the Star League: the Federated Suns, the Lyran Commonwealth, the Capellan
Confederation, the Draconis Combine, and the Free Worlds League.

Takeshi Kurita:  Ruler of the Draconis Combine.

Team Bonzai:  Mercenaries and expert techs under long-term contract to
House Davion.

Theodore Kurita:  Prince of Luthien and heir-designate of House Kurita.

Vibroblade:  a bulky version of a standard sword or other blade.  When
activated, it vibrates at an extremely high frequency, making it a very
effective cutting tool.

VTOL:  Vertical Take-off and Landing aircraft.

Wolf's Dragoons:  The most widely renowned mercenary regiment in the
Successor States.

============================================================================
APPENDIX
============================================================================

MAKING BACK-UP COPIES

To make back-up copies of your MechWarrior disks-

On a single floppy system:

1. Boot up your system and load DOS.

2. At the A> prompt, type DISKCOPY A: A: and press ENTER.

3. Follow the screen prompts - the source disk is your original MechWarrior
   disk and the target disk is a blank disk.

Repeat this procedure for each original MechWarrior disk.

On a double floppy system:

1. Boot up your system and load DOS.

2. At the A> prompt, type DISKCOPY A: B: and press ENTER.

3. Follow the screen prompts - the source disk is your original MechWarrior
   disk and the target disk is a blank disk.

Repeat this procedure for each original MechWarrior disk.


OPTIONS AT STARTUP

Depending on your system configuration, you may encounter problems loading
MechWarrior or, after loading the game, with its performance or appearance.
Or you may want to set up the game to perform in a certain way on your
system.  Follow this procedure every time you load MehWarrior.

Graphic Mode Options: To select a different graphics mode, enter one of the
options below after tying MW.  The game automatically selects the best
graphics mode for you.  If you like, however, you can manually select the
mode by typing one of the options after MW:

1 = EGA  (Enhanced Graphics Adapter, 16 color)
2 = TGA  (Tandy 1000 series, 16 color)
3 = CGA  (Composite Graphics Adapter, 4 color)

NOTE: CGA will only work in certain areas of the program.
The program must be run with an EGA compatible card.
For example, typing:

            mw (space) 1

and pressing ENTER will load the game with 16 color EGA graphics.

Sound and music options:  To force MechWarrior to recognize a particular
sound board, type the following after MW:

A = Adlib Board
T = Tandy MT-32
R = Roland
S = PC Speaker

Any of the above options can be combined when starting up MechWarrior.
For example, typing:

             mw (space) 3 (space) A

and pressing ENTER will load the game in CGA 4-color graphics mode and
force the program to look for an Adlib board.

CENTERING THE JOYSTICK

If you find that your Mech is moving when the joystick is centered, simply
push the joystick in the direction the Mech tends to move and press ALT and
J simultaneously to correct the problem.  For example, if the Mech is
drifting to the left, push the joystick to the left and press ALT - J.

===========================================================================
