
                 B U B B L E   G H O S T   by Accolade

                                           Typed by Postcard Man

STORY:

     The crazy inventor Heinrich Von Schinker is dead. Or so we thought 
until the nightwatchman told us his fantastic tale of the haunting of Von
Schtinker's old castle. Yes it has been confirmed. Heinrichs' sprit
(a.k.a. Bubble Ghost) has been blowing a bubble throughout the macarbe halls
of his ancestral home. Your job is to help Bubble Ghost move the bubble
through the 35 rooms of the castle, past all the mad inventions of Von 
Schtinker. Once the little ghostie makes it through, the haunting will cease.

GETTING STARTED:

     The game requires an Amiga with 512K. After the program loads, the title
screen appears. Press the left mouse button to start the game.

SETTING UP THE GAME:

     A selection screen appears with the following choices:

[G]ame lets you play a one or two player game. During a two player game, play
alternates after each bubble pops.

[P]ractice lets you practice any level of the game. This is useful when a 
level is giving you trouble. You have 6 bubbles to practice with. To exit,
press ESC. You can not practice Level 35.

[D]emo gives a demonstration of the game.

[H]all of Fame lets you review the high scores. Click the left mouse button
to exit.

KEYBOARD COMMANDS:

The following keys are good to know about:

Ctrl-P : Pauses the game.  Press CTRL to unpause.
ESC: Returns you to the selection screen.

GHOSTLY MOVEMENT:

     Bubble Ghost is indestructible. He cab touch and cross over any object 
without injury. Unfortunately the bubble is not so lucky. If it touches any 
object, it pops. Note: The ghost may touch the bubble without popping it. 
You start with 6 bubbles (5 in your bubble pouch, plus the one you are
blowing on), but you can get more (see Extra Lives). The number of bubbles
shown at the bottom of the screen indicates the number of bubbles in your
Bubble Pouch.
     Use the mouse to move the ghost around the screen. To move the ghost
to another angle, click the mouse buttons. The left mouse button rotates 
him counter-clockwise, while the right button moves him clockwise. Rotate 
the ghost to blow the bubble around corners and contraptions. To make Bubble
Ghost blow, press the Spacebar.

MOVING THE BUBBLE:

     To move the bubble, Bubble Ghost must blow on it. To blow, press the 
Spacebar. The distance between the bubble and the ghost affects the strength
of the blowing action. The closer they are, the more the bubble moves. Don't
blow too long without letting Bubble Ghost breathe, or he'll turn red in the
face and lose points. In addition to blowing the bubble, Bubble Ghost must
blow on objects in the castle to clear the way for the bubble (See Tricks
and Techniques).

COMPLETING A LEVEL / EXTRA LIVES:

     There are 35 rooms (levels). To complete a level, blow the bubble across
the screen to the exit. Some levels have more than one exit. These "Secret
Passageways" let you skip levels and bypass some of Von Schtinkers' 
inventions.
     You start the game with 6 lives (bubbles). If a bubble pops, you lose a 
life. Extra lives are awarded after successfully completing the following 
levels: 5, 11, 17, 23 and 29.

SCORING POINTS:

     Points are awarded after completing a level as described below:

EFFECTIVE BREATHING TECHNIQUES: If you complete the level without turning
  Bubble Ghost red, you earn 1000 points.

TIME LEFT ON THE BONUS COUNTER: At the bottom of the screen is a long
  horizontal bar that keeps getting shorter. This is the Bonus Bar. The
  faster you get through the room, the higher your bonus. If you pop a 
  bubble, the bonus counter does not reset for the next bubble. It 
  continues from where it was when the first bubble popped.

DISCOVERING CASTLE SECRETS: Bubble Ghost must blow on objects in the castle
  to clear the way for the bubble. Solving one of these puzzles earns 5000 
  points.

TRICKS & TECHNIQUES:

     In addition to secret passageways (see Completing a Level), there are
other mysteries in the castle. Bubble Ghsot must blow on certain objects to
clear the way for the bubble. We don't want to give it all away, but if a 
candle was making things a little too hot for you, what would you do? And 
what about the fans? You'll never get by unless you discover their secret.
There are other secrets, but....

CREDITS:

      The game was programmed by Infogrames in scenic France.

