   This game is shareware. If you like it, please send me $10 or whatever
contribution you can make to:

David Ashley
395 Sierra Madre Villa
Pasadena, CA 91107
USA

Send comments to the above address or to
EMAIL: dash@netcom.com

   Feel free to upload it anywhere, but do not modify any of the files.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              QUICK NOTES:
targis is the executable--run from CLI or click on the icon from workbench.
Your current directory must contain the DATA and LEVELS directories.

CONTROLS: on keypad

dig LEFT    move UP   dig RIGHT
   7           8          9

move LEFT   move DOWN  move RIGHT
   4           5          6
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                           HISTORY

    I wrote this game back when I was living in Berkeley, circa 1987. It is
similiar to the coin operated version of one of my favorite games. This game
was never ported to the Amiga, so I wrote this. After writing it, I then tried
selling it myself. I sent in new product announcements to Amigaworld--at that
time the game was called PopMan. The graphics were much different (cheesier).
I used sprites for the moving characters. There was no animator. The level
editor was still there, however.
   After selling a grand total of 6 or 10 games for $20 each, I was contacted
by some people at a company called Incognito software. We fixed up an
agreement where I would get 20% of the gross, and they'd publish the game.
They had artwork created for the box, and printed up a simple manual (see text
below). I also added various options for the new version (which was called
Targis.) The features included: removing the sprites and replacing them with
blitter objects, adding more bitplanes for more colors, putting in type-in-
the-word protection (which was pretty simple--one of the questions was DO YOU
LIKE TARGIS? to which the answer was obviously YES). It was a better product
all around.
   Incognito was run by two incompetent and borderline crooked individuals,
and I never really saw a profit. I think the game sold about 3000 units, but
there were lots of returns. The artwork on the original box looked like a
kid had done it with crayons. They had also botched other games by other
programmers, such as Brian Vodnik's Kingdoms of England (the box was actually
beautiful on this one--they just were crooked about money), and Michael Sinz's
SnakePit. Other games they did were FootMan and Vyper. Another company had
originally published those titles but Incognito took them over. Brian Vodnik
eventually sued Incognito and there was some settlement. He then went on to
create other titles such as Race Across America and Kingdoms of England II.
   Michael Sinz eventually released SnakePit, and it appears on a Fred Fish
disk. Following in the same tradition, I am finally releasing Targis (aka
PopMan) to the shareware arena. Maybe I'll make some money at it--probably
not, but at least this great game can be enjoyed by everyone now, and the
world will be a better place...
   An interesting note: To create this archive I took one of the original
disks out of one of the copies I had of the game, and I had to crack the game
just like a pirate--I thought that would be easier than digging through all
my disks to find the source. This version is just a slightly modified copy of
the one that Incognito sent out. I took out the protection and modified the
copyright notice that appears on the bottom.
   Enjoy this game. Create levels, trade them with friends, draw new graphics-
send me copies of anything interesting.
                                                   David Ashley
                                                   June 24, 1993
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------




ORIGINAL MANUAL:
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  TARGIS GAME INSTRUCTIONS

Targis placed the memo-chip in its reader. His mission, secret until now, was
about to be revealed to him. He had traveled several light-years in his small
robot-piloted ship, its cloaking device keeping his presence secret from the
Snixian Empire and its clone agents as he orbited the planet Valenta in the
Varda system. His hand trembled slightly as he placed the memo-chip in its
slot. What he heard confirmed his suspicions; he knew his task would not be
easy. He also knew that the Earth Defense Directorate would not have sent its
best agent to perform an easy task.
"The Snixian Empire has captured the advanced rocket research base on
Valanta," the memo intoned, "and its agents are packaging parts in stasis pods
for shipment back to their home base on Snix. We are not officially at war
with the Snixii, so we cannot mount a large-scale assault, but we cannot
allow this advanced technology to fall into their possession - that is why we
sent you, Targis." A hidden drawer opened in the center console, triggered by
a signal from the reader, revealing an odd-looking weapon. "You have one
weapon available to you - a digger gun. The structure of the base is made from
a local material known as organoplast, which won't burn, but is toxic when
vaporized. The digger gun melts organoplast, but its molecular memory causes
the bricks to return to their former shape very quickly. The digger gun won't
work on the concrete blocks. Watch for the pseudoplast bricks - they look
real, but you can fall through them. Although the Snixii have bypassed parts
of the base security system, other parts are still operational. The system has
been remotely programmed to aid your mission, but are only partly functional.
The rooms have been isolated to impede the Snixii, but when you gather all
parts in a room, the system will reveal an exit. If YOU get there first, the
clones cannot escape. Watch out for the clones! They have no arms, but their
clawed feet and sharp teeth are deadly! You can land on top of them safely.
They will sometimes keep a stasis pod with them, so if you don't see any more
pods, but no exit appears, you will have to recover the hidden pod. We know of
200 rooms, but there are rumors that a number of new rooms were built by
members of the base team. That is all we know for sure - good luck!"
The robot-ship's planetary navigation system suddenly came to life. The
computer system locked onto the rocket base far below. The small ship headed
into the atmosphere and began its automated descent...

"Targis is a fast-paced action game for the AMIGA computer. It offers 200
pre-defined levels and the ability to design your own levels and characters,
and will provide many months of enjoyable play!

BACKING UP THE DISK

Before you do anything else, MAKE A BACKUP OF THE ORIGINAL DISK and put the
original away for safe keeping. All play and modifications should be done on
a COPY of the original without the write protect tab set, as Targis frequently
writes data to the disk. Throughout this manual "playing disk" will refer
to a COPY of the original disk.

HOW TO USE TARGIS FROM WORKBENCH

Place your playing disk in one of the drives, then click on the "Targis" disk
icon. After the window opens, double-click on the "Targis" icon. If you
wish to use a subdirectory with custom levels from WorkBench, it must have a
drawer icon for "extended selection" to be used. While pressing and holding
either [SHIFT] key, single-click the desired custom-level drawer, then
double-click the "Targis" icon. This will cause Targis to get its levels from
the specified directory.

HOW TO USE THE TARGIS DISK FROM CLI

From CLI ("CLI>" indicates any valid CLI prompt), you must:

CLI> cd targis
CLI> targis -- or -- CLI> run targis

you may want to "run" Targis if you want to play Targis while multitasking;
it keeps the CLI window that it's launched from open for other commands.
The selection of custom levels works from CLI too. An example:

CLI> targis df1:mylevels

The game will come up in DEMO mode, where some of its features will be
demonstrated. On the right side of the screen are gadgets which will cause
Targis to switch to its various modes of operation.

[DA: This note is from me (Dave Ashley). The original docs were wrong-Targis
takes over the display. However it doesn't disable multitasking--you can be
downloading a big file in the background while playing Targis. When you exit
from the game it frees up all its resources.]

HOW TO PLAY TARGIS

You control "Targis", an agent whose job is to recover pods of stolen parts
from the lair of a group of alien agents. You must recover ALL the pods on a
particular level to finish that level. You may move in all four directions by
walking along floors, climbing ladders, falling, and moving hand over hand
along rails. The floors are composed of bricks and cement blocks. You may
use your digging gun to blast away bricks when it is convenient. They will
disintegrate for a short time, and you will be able to get at stasis pods
which are buried. Cement blocks are permanent and may not be blasted away.

Once you have gathered all the pods on a level, exit ladders will appear and
you will be able to leave by going off the top of the level. You will earn
another life and be transported to a new level.

To make your job more complicated, there are enemies on most levels whose job
is to prevent you from gathering the parts-pods. If an enemy touches you, you
will lose a life - so avoid them! Enemies move just like you, except that they
are unable to dig through bricks. Enemies may become trapped in a place where
you are quite able to escape from with your gun. Enemies cannot fall through
dug bricks - they become caught in them for a while. You may then walk over
them. If a brick solidifies with an enemy in it he will be killed, and another
will drop from the top of the level to replace him. It is safe to walk along
the top of a moving enemy; he has no hands, and will be unable to reach up and
grab you.

You may also be killed by a brick that solidifies with you in it. Whenever you
lose a life, the level is reset and you must start over, if you still have
more lives. When your last man is killed, the game is over.

Enemies often pick up stasis pods in an attempt to prevent you from recovering
them. They will become tired of carrying them after a while and will drop
them. If an enemy is killed carrying a pod, it is gathered for you and you
don't have to worry about it anymore. Also if an enemy falls down from within
a blasted brick, his pod will be yours.

Enemies are a mixed blessing. Sometimes you must trick them into doing your
work for you, and other times they are a potent danger that serves only to
hinder your efforts.

MODES OF OPERATION

NOTE: A letter enclosed in brackets [] indicates pressing that keyboard key.
Most gadgets in most modes have keyboard shortcuts, usually the first letter
of the desired command.

DEMO MODE

Targis starts out in DEMO mode, where you see a game in progress. These
gadgets are on the right side: a picture of a projector, a picture of a die,
"GO!", "RG", "ED" and "BYE". Clicking on the PROJECTOR gadget or pressing [A]
will enter the animator. the DIE gadget or [D] will enter random play,
clicking on "GO!" will begin a game. The "RG" gadget or [R] will restore a
saved game, the "ED" gadget or [E] takes you to edit mode where you may
create your own levels and experiment with them. "BYE" or [B] exits Targis.
Pressing [L] will allow the specification of which level to demo. Pressing
[H] will show the high score list.

PLAY MODE

These gadgets are available: "SG", "KILL", "MAN", "LVL", "UP", "Paws" (pause),
and "EXIT". The "SG" gadget or [S] saves the current game. Since sometimes
you will be trapped in a situation where you are alive yet unable to escape
or kill yourself, "KILL" or [K] kills this man for you. "MAN" or [M] gives you
an extra man, if play gets too hard and you want to continue. "LVL" or [L]
allows you to continue play at a specific level, "UP" or [U] skips to the next
level, and the PAUSE gadget or [P] are used for pausing play. "EXIT" or [E]
aborts the current game and Targis will return to DEMO mode.

EDIT MODE

Targis is a versatile game. You are not limited to the levels which came with
it; you may create your own; in fact, some players find as much enjoyment in
the creation of levels as in the playing of them. The EDIT mode allows you to
create and experiment with your own levels. You may save and load levels from
your playing disk, although there is a chance you might write over the
original levels. It is a good idea to create a special disk for your personal
levels by copying targis to it and creating a directory "LEVELS" or "MYLEVELS".
The best way to do this is to copy the "Empty" drawer from the Workbench disk
to the desired disk, then rename it. This will allow your new levels to work
from workbench as described earlier. In EDIT mode you will see all the types
of blocks on the left of the screen. You may pick which type you are working
with by clicking on one of them, or selecting one with the number keys. You
may then modify the selected level with the mouse.

These gadgets are available in EDIT mode: "TRY", "DN", "UP", "LD", "SV", "CLR",
and "EXIT". The "TRY" gadget or [T] allows you to play-test a level, "DN" or
[D] will go to the next lower level, the "UP" gadget or [U] will go to the
next higher level loaded or saved, "LD" or [L] will load from the "SV" or [S]
will save to arbitrary levels. "CLR" or [C] will fill the level with the
current type of gadget, and "EXIT" or [E] exits back to DEMO mode.

When creating levels, some guidelines must be followed. You may not have more
than five enemies on any level. You may only have one player. On the top line
of the level you must have at least one empty square, to allow enemies to
appear. Make sure the level can be finished by play-testing it.

The brick with the question mark in it is where a hidden monster might be
found. When this is dug in PLAY mode, a monster might come into existence.
The bonus rocket part he holds is worth 4000 points, so trap him and take it
when possible. It is standard practice to place exactly three hidden monsters
where they are least likely to cause the player harm. For example, on the
bottom row of bricks, the left or right end is a good place. If a player is
being chased by enemies, and he digs to trap one or more of them, he does not
want to accidentally find a hidden monster.

Hidden monsters are not required. They are just an addition to add some spice
to the game. Once the hidden monster has been dug up, another will not appear
unless the level is restarted by the player's death.

The stasis pod with the enlarged glint is the bonus pod. If the player is able
to get this before all other pods on a level, it is worth 8000 points. It is
also standard practice to place exactly three of them, if any are desired.

It should always be possible to get the flashing pod first. Some levels are
not appropriate for the flashingpods, as the level may dictate that a certain
pod be gathered first. In that case, the player does not have a choice in the
matter. Getting the flashing pod first should be challenging, and should
require some thought. It may require that enemies move pods out of the way for
you before you have a clear path to it, or you may have to do some tricky
digging.

A few notes about fake bricks (pseudoplast) are in order. It may be very
tempting to use fake bricks in places where they are a nasty trick on the
player, forcing them to sacrifice enough men to learn where the fake bricks
are in order to use and avoid them.

While it is sometimes fun to watch someone else play and suffer through one
of these fake-brick levels, actually playing it is another matter. It becomes
annoying, frequently getting fooled and trapped. Also, fake bricks are not
clever. A good rule to follow about fake bricks is to only use them where
the player can recover safely from finding one, or where the player can
postulate their existance. It may be possible to use the fact that certain
bricks logically must be fake in order to get at certain pods.

SOME TIPS ON CREATING GOOD LEVELS

>> Play test the level to make sure it is possible to solve and enjoyable to
   play. Chances are, if you like the level, other people will too. If there
   are certain levels that you like in particular, try to determine what
   components of them you find most attractive, and use those features in your
   own levels.
>> Avoid tedious levels, where a simple process must be repeated over and over,
   perhaps with a chance of death on each pass.
>> Timed and/or ordered digging is always a challenge, especially to an
   experienced player. They usually require thought and skill to figure out.
>> Using enemies to get at certain pods is also clever. Some levels require
   that an enemy be placed in a specific place. Other levels require walking
   on enemys' heads. Still other levels require massive killing of enemies to
   get balloons for you (warning: trapping and killing each enemy costs 250
   bonus points).
>> Remember that if a level has enemies and is completed without trapping,
   the player earns 20000 points. If it is completed without killing, it is
   worth 10000 points. Do not always force killing and trapping onto the
   player. Trying to complete levels without trapping and killing is a good
   challenge. It is not always easy; it may require a good deal of thought.
>> Hidden monsters and flashing gold are nice features. Try to put in three
   of each.
>> Examine the levels that come with the game for ideas and guidelines. Feel
   free to modify any level that comes into your hands. Levels evolve, and it
   is the little changes that come only from continued playing that perfect
   them.
>> The best levels are the ones that require a lot of thought, and a fair
   amount of skill.

KEYBOARD AND CONTROLS

As noted above, you may use keyboard keys to have the same effect as gadget
operations. Within any mode, typing the first letter of any of the gadgets
will do that gadget's functions. For example, tapping [M] in PLAY mode gives
you a life, [E] in DEMO mode causes Targis to enter EDIT mode, and so on. The
main exception to this is the [A] key, the shortcut to the animator
represented by the PROJECTOR gadget.

In EDIT mode the numeric keys will select the block type you are working with.
This is very convenient, as you will not have to move the mouse back and forth
and waste time. The mapping is as follows:

` Empty block
1 Diggable brick (organoplast)
2 Cement brick
3 Ladder
4 Rail
5 Fake brick (pseudoplast)
6 Exit ladder [will appear when all pods are taken]
7 Stasis pod
8 Enemy
9 Targis (your player)
0 Hidden monster. Try to put either three or none of these.
- Flashing balloon. Try to put either three or none of these.

Also one more point: tapping [K] in any play mode, including DEMO mode, will
abort the life.

You may use the keyboard for input in PLAY mode. The number pad works as
follows:
4  Move left        7    8    9
6  Move right     Ldig  Up   Rdig
5  Move down
8  Move up          4    5    6
7  Dig left       Left  Down Right
9  Rig right
Other keys:
<  dig left
>  dig right
1  Move up (not number pad)
2  Move down
3  Move left
4  Move right

Alternatively you may plug a joystick in the second port and use that. Since
joysticks only have one button, digging is done in the last direction your man
moved.

SCORING

Entrap/kill            -250
Pod                    100,200,400...
Complete level         1500
Hidden monster's part  4000
Flashing pod           8000 (If you get this before the other pods)
No killing             10000
No entrapping          20000

ADVANCED TOPICS

Targis records the last play of any level in PLAY mode. In DEMO mode, these
recordings are played back, so you may view your performances. By pressing [L]
in DEMO mode, you can select which level to demo. [K] will simply kill the man
and go on to the next level.

The recordings are placed in the LEVELS directory. They consist of the level
number followed by an "M". Levels are the level number followed by an "L".

You may run Targis from any disk, even the RAM: disk. You must copy "Targis"
and "Targis.info" to the device. You must also make LEVELS and DATA
directories with drawer icons, and copy the DATA files from the original disk.

The DATA directory contains files that Targis needs for execution. Some are
the raw sound files, and others are graphics and animation pictures that can
be modified, if you wish to change them. Make sure to save them as IFF files
of 320 wide by 200 high, 32 colors.

Remember that you may specify what directory contains levels when Targis is
invoked, either from workbench or CLI, as noted earlier.

It is a good idea to share levels with the rest of the world. Upload them to
BBS's, mail them to public domain distributors, or send them to our BBS. Make
a "MYLEVELS" direcotry and copy your levels into it. This will ensure that
levels will circulate, so we may all enjoy each other's creations.

SPECIAL THANKS GO TO THE FOLLOWING PEOPLE

Ron Hunsinger for help with the algorithms for enemy movement.
Kevin Oster for designing and testing many of the levels.
Alex Morando for designing and testing some of the levels.

ANIMATOR

The grid of boxes are all the poses for a single character. The 12 by 10
array is read from left to right and top to bottom. Each row represents a
different movement, in the following order:

Stationary
Climbing ladder
Falling
Walking left
Walking right
Left on rail
Right on rail
Spare
Spare
Spare

Clicking with the left mouse-button in one of the figures will allow editing
of that figure.

In the lower right corner is a palette displaying all 32 colors available.
The color table can be modified by selecting a color and moving one of the
sliders in the 3-column RGB display. Note that the game will ignore any color
changes, as it uses the color table from the "data/gfx" file. You must change
the data/gfx file's color table for the game to notice the change.

The gadgets on the bottom left do various useful things. Their keyboard
equivalents ar ein brackets [] and the images are described in parenthesis()
where needed. From top to bottom and left to right, their functions are:

[M] (diagonal arrows around a box) moves figure to a new box. The currently
    specified figure will be copied into the next box specified.
[U] (Undo) Undoes the last modification to the current figure.
[C] (Clr) clears the current figure
[R] reads in the file specified in the text input area at the top of the
    screen.
[S] plays back an animation strip SEQUENCE. Animation is done by selecting
    a list of figures that will appear in the strip. The playback is
    terminated by clicking on this gadget again.
[W] writes out the file specified in the text input area at the top of the
    screen
[RIGHT CURSOR] (Right Arrow) shifts the figure right
[UP CURSOR] (UP arrow) shifts the figure up
[DOWN CURSOR] (DOWN arrow) shifts the figure down
[LEFT CURSOR] (LEFT arrow) shifts the figure left
[X] (left/right arrow) flips the selected image on the horizontal axis
    (left/right)
[Y] (up/down arrow) flips the slected image on the vertical axis (left/right)
[D] (curved dotted line) DRAW mode.
[F] (pouring can) FILL mode
[T] Test to see what the game will look like. Fallow by entering GFX,
    MONSTER0, MONSTER1, or MONSTER2 to the prompt "TEST FILE?" in the text
    input area at the top of the screen. This causes the animator to change
    Targis' internal definitions of the specified figures.
(Empty gadget ) non-functional spare
[O] (nine squares, 3x3) Toggle pattern duplication. This allows patters like
    the diggable bricks to be created, as the current figure will be
    duplicated nine times in a 3x3 array in the upper right.
[P] Pick color. Click on this gadget, then click on the color you want to
    pick.
[1]-[8] The last eight gadgets are various brush shapes.

The SHIFTed CURSOR keys scroll the entire 14x12 array around withing the
internal 20x16 storage area.

The boxes stacked in the tall strip to the right of the image blowup specify
the animation speed. Selecting a higher box results in faster animation
sequencing. The player's speed is normally at setting #2, and the enemies'
speed is normally at setting #3.

The box to the right is the TV (display area). Clicking on this will display
its contents in the larger box. Animation is displayed in the TV.

Exit the program by clicking the "exit" gadget on the right side of the
screen. The program does NOT SAVE to the disk automatically on exit. You
MUST use the "W" gadget to SAVE the file.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
I didn't include the warranty and disclaimer that Incognito had, and their
advertisement for other products.
Their list was Vyer, FootMan, SnakePit, Atredes BBS, Atredes Terminal,
Opticks, SkyPaint.
