

                        Disney Animation Studio

                            Getting Started
                        
                           Table of Contents

1  Read Me First

	What The Animation Studio Is   1-1
	Documentation  1-2
	How To Use the Manuals  1-3

2  Installation

	Objectives  2-1
	Software  2-1
	Hardware  2-2
	Installing the Software  2-2
	Running The Animation Studio on a Low Memory System  2-3
	Installing on a Hard Disk  2-4
	Starting The Animation Studio  2-5
	Technical Support  2-8

3  Lesson 1: Getting Started

	Objectives  3-1
	How to Use the Lessons  3-1
	The Animation Studio Program  3-2
	Starting The Animation Studio  3-2
	Communicating with The Animation Studio  3-3
	The Screen Elements  3-4
		The Menu Bar  3-5
		The Toolbox  3-6

				iii

	Creating Simple Drawings  3-6
		Creating Outlines  3-6
		Clearing the Screen  3-7
		Creating Boxes and Circles  3-7
	Creating a Simple Animation  3-9
		Start With an Idea  3-9
		Create the First Cel  3-9
		Advance to Next Cel  3-10
		Create a Brush  3-11
		Run the Animation  3-13
	Help Screen and Keyboard Commands  3-13
	Exiting The Animation Studio  3-14
	End of Lesson  3-15

4  Lesson 2: Working with Animation Files

	Objectives  4-1
	Loading the DEMO-REEL Animation  4-2
	Loading an Animation File  4-3
	Modifying Sample Animation Files  4-5
	Saving an Animation File  4-6

				iv

5  Lesson 3: Creating a Complete Animation

	Objectives  5-1
	Finishing a Pencil Test Animation  5-2
	Adding Detail to the Sack Animation  5-4
	Ink & Paint  5-7
		Filling Outlines  5-8
		Fixing Leaks  5-8
		Paint Remaining Cels  5-11
	Adding a Background to an Animation  5-11
		Creating a Frisket  5-12
		Loading a Background  5-13
	End of Lesson  5-14

Index

				v

                            Chapter 1

                          Read Me First

Welcome to Disney Presents... The Animation Studio!
Prepare to embark on an adventure in animation.

                     What The Animation Studio Is

The Animation Studio is an easy-to-use animation program for anyone who is
interested in learning about animation and creating animations on a
computer.  The Animation Studio's powerful capabilities allow you to create
and enhance animations with unlimited artistic possibilities.  Now you can
create and view your animations with the speed of the computer and make
changes just as fast.

With The Animation Studio you can view and study Disney reference
animations from such classics as Lady and the Tramp, Alice in Wonderland,
and many others.  These demonstrations will help you to learn some of the
magic that is characteristic of Disney-style animation.

The Animation Studio provides a variety of powerful functions to help you
to create animation.  These include:

	* Free form drawing tools

	* Quick creation of geometric shapes such as circles, ellipses,
	  and rectangles.

				1-1

	* Pencil test with "onion skin" effect

	* Instant animation testing

	* Exposure sheet with music and sound effects

	* Virtually unlimited color selection

	* File exchange with other animation and paint programs

	* and much more...

                            Documentation

Two manuals are provided with The Animation Studio.

The Getting Started manual instructs you on the installation and start up
of the software, and then provides a series of lessons that guide
first-time animators through the major steps necessary to create computer
animations.

The User Guide contains complete and detailed instructions on all of the
features of The Animation Studio.  In addition, the User Guide presents a
short history of animation and the significant contributions that have come
from Walt Disney.  Finally, the User Guide has a chapter devoted to the
techniques of animation that have made Walt Disney Studios the recognized
leader in the field.

				1-2

                      How to Use the Manuals

The documentation serves the needs of a variety of audiences from
experienced computer animators who are familiar with the Amiga, to skilled
Amiga users who are new to animation, to first time users of an Amiga who
have no animation experience.  The Animation Studio offers something for
each of these audiences.

We recommend that first-time users with little or no animation experience
start by reading Chapter 1 - The Disney History of Animation: From Pencil
to Pixel in the User Guide.  Then read the Installation chapter that
immediately follows this section.  Finally, we recommend that you work
through the lessons provided in this manual.

Experienced Amiga users with some knowledge of animation may want to take a
look at the Installation chapter and a quick skim reading of the User
Guide.  Then start the program and try it out.  If you get stuck, you
should be able to find the appropriate information in the User Guide by
using the index.

Skilled Amiga users with no previous animation experience may want to read
the animation chapters in the User Guide and then try out some of the
techniques.  We also recommend that you experiment with the sample
animations as a starting point.

				1-3

                             Chapter 2

                            Installation

This Chapter briefly describes the contents of The Animation Studio and
what computer hardware and software you need to use it.

                            Objectives

This section shows you how to:

	* Install The Animation Studio software
	* Start The Animation Studio

                             Software

The Animation Studio package contains three disks:

	* The STUDIO disk contains The Animation Studio program, a 
	  library of sample animations, and some basic sound effects.

	* The MORGUE disk contains reference animations from Disney
	  Studios.  These animations are provided for you to study.

				2-1

	* The DEMO-REEL Disk contains a black and white and a full color
	  animation featuring Donald Duck, and an additional animation
	  with color and sound.

                              Hardware

In order to run The Animation Studio you must have an Amiga with at least
512K (one megabyte or more is recommended), of random access memory, a
monitor, and extra formatted disks for saving your work.

                       Installing the Software

You should already know how to initialize disks, copy disks, delete files,
and move files from one disk to another.  If you are not familiar with
these activities, consult the manuals supplied with your computer before
going any further.

Before you use The Animation Studio disks, you should make one or more
working copies of them to reduce the chance of damaging or losing the
originals.  Also make sure you create one or more blank initialized disks
for saving your work.

				2-2

          Running The Animation Studio on a Low Memory System

If you are working on a low memory system, here are some tips and memory
saving techniques you should use:

	* Use the CLI, not the Workbench.  This saves a large block of
	  valuable chip memory.  You can get to the CLI without loading
	  the icon-based Workbench by pressing and holding CTRL [d] while
	  booting your computer from the STUDIO disk. This brings you to 
   	  the CLI prompt.  To open the Pencil Test from the CLI, type
	  Pencil-Test at the CLI prompt.  To open Ink & Paint, type
	  Ink-&-Paint at the CLI prompt.

	* If you use the Workbench, close all of the windows that are
	  open.  Closing The Animation Studio window saves approximately
	  35K.

	* Do not run other programs while using The Animation Studio.

	* Do not run Pencil Test and Ink & Paint at the same time.

	* Some functions or tools may not work properly on a 512K system
	  depending on the amount of memory available.  The Magnify tool,
	  Save As and Load requester or high-resolution animations may
	  not run or work correctly.  When possible, select Save instead
	  of Save As to avoid losing your work.  If a message display
	  notifies you that you are in low memory, follow the tips 
	  displayed on screen to save your work and system memory.

	* Use the F1 key to keep track of the system memory available.

	* Save animations often so you don't lose your work.

				2-3

                      Installing On a Hard Disk

This section describes how to install The Animation Studio on your Amiga
hard drive.  The following steps assume that you started the computer with
a standard Workbench that has been configured properly to support a hard
disk.

	1. Create a Drawer named Animation Studio on your hard disk.

	   To do so, double click on the hard disk icon, then click the
	   Empty drawer icon to select it.  Choose Duplicate from the
	   Workbench menu.  In a moment a new drawer is created called
	   "copy of Empty".  Click the "copy of Empty" drawer to select
	   it.  Choose Rename from the Workbench menu.  Press [Del] until
	   you erase the current drawer name or press [right A] [x].  Type
	   "Animation Studio" and press [Return].  You now have a drawer
	   named Animation Studio.

	2. Insert the STUDIO disk into a disk drive.

	3. Double-click the STUDIO disk icon to see the contents of the
	   disk.

	4. Click The Animation Studio icon.  Then hold down the Shift key
	   and click the other icons in the Studio window.  You now have
	   the contents of the STUDIO disk selected.

	5. While continuing to hold down the Shift key, drag the icons so
	   that the icon you are pointing to is directly over the Animation
	   Studio drawer icon.  Release the mouse button.  Now the
	   Workbench copies the programs into your hard disk drawer.

				2-4

	6. Replace the STUDIO disk with the MORGUE disk.  Double-click
	   the MORGUE disk icon to view the contents of the disk.  Select
	   all of the icons on the disk as you did previously with the 
	   STUDIO disk.  Drag the icons onto the Animation Studio drawer
	   icon on your hard drive the same way you did above.

	7. Replace the MORGUE disk with the DEMO-REEL disk, double click 
	   on the disk icon and drag the icons over to the Animation Studio
	   drawer.

You now have copies of The Animation Studio program and the library and
reference animation drawers on your hard disk.

                    Starting The Animation Studio

If your Amiga has less than 1 Meg (one megabyte) of RAM, start the Pencil
Test program from the CLI.  To do so:

	1. Turn on your computer and monitor.  When the request for a 
	   Workbench disk appears on screen, insert your working copy of
	   the STUDIO disk.

	2. While the computer boots from the work disk, (you can hear the
	   disk spinning), press and hold down [Ctrl] [d].

	3. The CLI prompt displays.

	4. At the CLI prompt type Pencil-Test.

This technique saves valuable memory on a low memory system.

				2-5

To start The Animation Studio on a system with 1 Meg or more of RAM:

	1. Turn on your computer and monitor.  When the request for the
	   Workbench disk appears on the screen, insert your working copy
	   of the STUDIO disk.  Note: Amiga 1000 users, start by inserting
	   the Kickstart disk in the internal drive.  The drive spins for
	   a few seconds, and then the STUDIO disk icon appears on the
	   screen.

	2. Double-click the disk icon (move the pointer onto the icon and
	   press the left mouse button twice in quick succession) to open
	   the disk window.

	   The disk window opens to reveal the icons for The Animation
	   Studio.

	3. To start the application, double-click The Animation Studio
	   program icon located at the upper left corner of the screen.

When you start The Animation Studio, the program presents a requester (a
window that requires some input) inviting you to enter specific information
from the User Guide.  The requester asks a question and provides a
reference to the page and exact location that has the correct information. 
Type the answer and press [Enter].  you must input this information
correctly to start The Animation Studio.

				2-6

                    Figure 2-1.  Security Requester

Correctly answering the question brings you to the Pencil Test screen, with
the cel area or page on the left and the Toolbox on the right as shown
below.

				2-7

                    Figure 2-2. Pencil Test Screen

If this is your first time using The Animation Studio, work through the
tutorial lessons, where you will learn how to use many of The Animation
Studio tools and techniques.

                           Technical Support

If you have questions about The Animation Studio, and you can't find the
answers in the User Guide or the Getting Started manual, call Walt Disney
Computer Software Customer Service at (818) 841-3326.

				2-8

                     Lesson 1: Getting Started

This lesson introduces you to the basics of The Animation Studio.  By the
time you complete this lesson you will be able to create simple animations.

                             Objectives

This lesson shows you how to:

	* Interact with The Animation Studio

	* Create simple drawings

	* Create a simple animation

	* Exit The Animation Studio

                      How to Use the Lessons                  [RYGAR WAS HERE]

The purpose of the lesson is to introduce you to the scope of animation
possibilities with The Animation Studio.  This includes creating your own
animation.  You may not be an expert animator after completing the lessons
in this tutorial, but you will know enough about The Animation Studio to
feel comfortable using the User Guide and your own imagination to explore
further.

				3-1

In fact, exploring is probably the best way to go about learning The
Animation Studio!  If you get an idea as you are reading, try it,
especially during the first two lessons.

                  The Animation Studio Program

The Animation Studio consists of:

	* The Pencil Test - where you create rough black and white
	  animations to work out form and timing.

	* Exposure Sheet - where you set up the sequences of cels that
	  make up your animation, and add music and sound effects

	* Ink & Paint - where you clean up the outlines from the Pencil
	  Test and add color

	* Camera - where you add backgrounds to your final animations

                    Starting The Animation Studio

To start The Animation Studio from the Workbench, put the mouse pointer
over the program icon and double click.  (See the Installation chapter of
this manual for more complete instructions).  The Animation Studio
Workbench is displayed.

				3-2

               Figure 3-1. Screen display with Workbench

Now that The Animation Studio is open you can start creating.  But first
you need to know how to communicate with The Animation Studio.

                 Communicating with The Animation Studio

The main way to communicate with The Animation Studio is with the mouse and
keyboard.  By moving the mouse, you can control the movement of a pointer
on the monitor screen.  The pointer looks like +.  Locate the pointer on
your screen.

				3-3

By moving the mouse, you can move the pointer to any position on the
screen.  Look at the screen and locate the pointer.  Move it around by
moving the mouse.

Now that you know what it feels like to control the pointer on screen with
the mouse, you are ready to command The Animation Studio to perform.

                         The Screen Elements

You should have just started The Animation Studio program.  The section of
the program that you should be in is the Pencil Test, and your screen
should look like the one shown below.

		 Figure 3-2. Pencil Test Screen Elements

				3-4

The Menu Bar

In the figure below, the Pencil Test menu bar is displayed at the top of
the screen.  To display the menu bar on your screen, glide the pointer to
the top of the screen and hold down on the right mouse button.  Notice the
menu bar on your screen.  The menu bar consists of the menu titles.

Move the pointer over the Project menu title.  Notice that the Project menu
appears as shown below.

                  Figure 3-3. Pencil Test Project Menu

Continue to hold down the right mouse button and point to each of the menu
titles.  Notice the menu items in each menu.

Selecting a menu item causes an action to occur.  For example, selecting
Clear from the Edit menu erases the current cel.

More information about menus is presented later in this tutorial.

				3-5

The Toolbox

As you know, the function of the Pencil Test is to create a series of
roughly drawn, black and white cels to work out the timing and movement of
your animation.  The Animation Studio provides a Toolbox containing tools
that help you create drawings for the cels of the animation.  These tools
are represented as icons, which are symbols of the functions that the tools
perform.

To use a tool you must select it.  To select a tool, move the pointer over
it and click the left mouse button.  The tool that is currently selected is
highlighted.  Practice selecting several different tools.

		      Creating Simple Drawings

The first step in animating with The Animation Studio is to create outlines
of the objects or characters that you want to move.  Later, you can clean
up the outlines and fill them with color in the Ink & Paint section of The
Animation Studio.

Creating Outlines

Click on the Freehand Line tool (upper left tool in the Toolbox), if it is
not currently highlighted.

Now draw some outlines using the Freehand Line tool.  To do this, hold down
on the left button of the mouse and move the mouse to create freehand lines
on the screen.  Practice moving the mouse in straight lines and then
circular patterns.

Switch mouse buttons and hold down on the right button.  Draw over an area
that already has black lines while holding down the right button.  Notice
that holding down the right button creates

				3-6

white lines and acts as an eraser on the black lines.  You can use this
technique to clean up mistakes.  You can also click on the Undo icon if you
make a mistake.  This will erase your last action.

Continue to practice freehand drawing until you have a feel for drawing
with the mouse.

Clearing the Screen

Your screen should still have the lines on it that you have drawn.  To
clear the screen, move the mouse pointer over the Toolbox and click on the
CLR icon.  This clears the screen.  Use the CLR tool whenever you want to
clear the entire screen.

Creating Boxes and Circles

The Animation Studio provides several tools for creating geometric shapes. 
You can use these commands as another means to create outlines.

Use the CLR tool to clear your screen.  Now select the Rectangle tool by
clicking on the icon (fourth from the top on the left hand side).  Notice
that the bottom half of the tool is solid and the top half is an outline. 
If you click on the top half you can draw outline boxes and if you click on
the lower half of the tool you can create filled boxes.

Click on the top half of the tool and move the pointer onto the cel area. 
To draw a rectangle, press the left mouse button to anchor a corner of the
rectangle.  Then continue to hold the left button down and drag the mouse
away from the anchor point.  Notice that the rectangle enlarges as you drag
the mouse away.  The rectangle is finished when you let go of the mouse
button.

				3-7

                     Figure 3-4.  Rectangle Example

Now click on the bottom half of the Rectangle tool.  Draw a filled
rectangle by using the same technique with the mouse that you used to make
an unfilled rectangle.  After you make a filled rectangle, try holding down
the right button of the mouse and drawing a smaller rectangle over the
filled one you just created.  Notice that holding down the right button
creates a white rectangle.  This technique can be used to correct mistakes
without erasing the whole cel by creating a small white rectangle that acts
as an eraser.

Next click on the filled Circle tool that is just above the rectangle tool
in the Toolbox.  Move the pointer onto the cel and draw a circle by holding
down the mouse button and dragging.

Continue to practice drawing with the tools that you have used so far.

				3-8

                    Creating a Simple Animation

In this next part of the tutorial you are going to create a simple pencil
test animation.

Start With an Idea

Any animation starts with an idea.  The idea for this one is simple, a
bouncing ball.  As with any animation, the illusion of continuous motion is
created by drawing a series of cels in which the object of the motion
changes slightly in each successive cel.  When the cels are played back at
a typical rate of 12 to 24 frames per second, the viewer perceives motion.

Create the First Cel

To create a bouncing ball, you will draw a filled circle on the first cel
and then draw the ball in a new position on each of a number of successive
cels.

Start by clearing the cel area, if there is anything drawn on it.  Then
select the filled Circle tool and draw a filled circle in the top middle of
the cel.  Your screen should look something like the one shown on the next
page.

				3-9

              Figure 3-5. Cel 1 of 1 with Filled Circle

Advance to Next Cel

Next, advance to the second cel by pointing to the Right Arrow tool in the
Toolbox and clicking the left mouse button.  You should now be on cel 2. 
Look at the menu bar and notice the indicator Cel 2 of 2.

Also notice that the filled circle on cel 1 "shows through" as a gray image
on cel 2.  This is similar to the effect of making drawings on onion skin
paper, which is called the onion skin effect.  By seeing the position of
the drawing on the previous cel, you can position the drawing on the
current cel to create a path of action.

Now create a filled circle of the same size as the previous one, but
position it below the first circle so that about half the circle overlaps. 
This is the downward path of action for the bouncing ball.  When you
complete this your screen should look like the one shown on the next page.

				3-10

                          Figure 3-6. Cel 2

Now you are ready to advance to cel 3.  Another way that you can advance to
the next cel, instead of clicking on the Forward Arrow tool, is by pressing
the Right Arrow key on your keyboard.  Try it!

The Animation Studio lets you command it by using the mouse and pointing to
tools and menu items, or by using specific keys on the keyboard.  The
choice is yours.  More information about the keyboard commands is presented
later.

Create a Brush

Another useful feature of The Animation Studio is the Brush tool.  This
tool allows you to draw something on the screen and then make that piece of
art into a brush.  Once you make a brush you can duplicate that same piece
of art anywhere on the current cel or any other cel.

				3-11

You can see how the Brush tool works by using it to create additional cels
for the bouncing ball animation.

Return to cel 2 for a moment by pressing the left arrow key or by clicking
the Left Arrow icon.  Now click on the Brush tool (the icon below the T in
the Toolbox).

Move the pointer back over the cel and notice that your cursor is now a
large cross-hair.  Place the center of the cross-hair above the upper left
of the ball.  Then hold down the left mouse button, drag the cursor to
enclose the ball in the box and release the mouse button.  The screen below
shows the ball enclosed in the box.

		     Figure 3-7. Brush Selection

				3-12

Notice that you now have an image of the ball that moves as you move the
mouse.  Next advance forward to cel 3, position the ball (using the onion
skin image of cel 2) and click the left mouse button to stamp the ball in
the new position.

Continue to advance cels and stamp the brush of the ball on each cel,
slightly increasing the spaces between each ball until you reach the bottom
of the cel.  You should be on cel 7 or 8.

Keep using the brush, and while advancing cels, stamp the ball on
successive cels so that the ball goes upward to the top of the screen. 
When you reach the top you are ready to run your animation.

Cancel the brush by moving the mouse pointer to the absolute bottom right
corner of the screen and clicking, or by pressing the period (.) key on the
keyboard.

Run the Animation

To see your bouncing ball animation, click on the Projector tool (lower
left tool in the Toolbox or, press [a] on your keyboard).  Your animation
should now run.  To stop it, press either mouse button.

                 Help Screen and Keyboard Commands

Now you are ready to start creating animations.  But before you start,
there's one more thing you should know about The Animation Studio.  A Help
screen is always available in each section of The Animation Studio.  The
Help screen summarizes the function key commands.  Press [Help] to view the
Help screen for the Pencil Test section.

				3-13

Another way to learn key commands is to pull down the menus and observe the
keys specified there.

	               Figure 3-8. Help Screen

                     Exiting The Animation Studio

To exit The Animation Studio, select Quit from the Project menu.  The
Animation Studio asks if you are certain.  Click on OK to quit and return
to the disk window, or click on Cancel to return to the program.

				3-14

                            End of Lesson

This lesson should have introduced you to the basics involved in using The
Animation Studio.  Spend some time experimenting and trying out what you
have learned so far.

				3-15

                             Chapter 4

               Lesson 2: Working with Animation Files

When you create animations on the computer and wish to save them for future
viewing or to make changes, they are stored to the disk as computer files. 
In addition, the example and reference animations that are part of The
Animation Studio are stored on the disk as files.  The Animation Studio
uses IFF, Anim, and CFast file formats.

In this tutorial you learn how to work with animation files.

                            Objectives

This lesson shows you how to:

	* Load the DEMO-REEL animations

	* Load a sample animation

	* Save an animation file

				4-1

                  Loading the DEMO-REEL Animation

The DEMO-REEL disk contains a complete animated segment featuring Donald
Duck.  This reference animation is in full color.  The Donald animation was
digitized and The Animation Studio was used to clean up and color the
animation, as well as establish the timing and import the background using
the Camera functions.  Due to the size of the animation, it has been
specially compressed to make it possible to include it on the supplied
disk.

To play this animation:

	1. Exit The Animation Studio program by selecting Quit from the
	   Project menu.  Close the Studio window.

	2. Put the DEMO-REEL disk in the disk drive, double click on the
	   disk icon, and double-click on the Donald icon.

	3. To stop the demonstration and return to the Workbench, click
	   the left mouse button.

If you are working on a low memory system, run the black and white Donald
animation from the CLI.  To do so:

	1. Follow the instructions in Chapter 2 for booting from the
	   STUDIO disk to get the CLI prompt.

	2. Place the DEMO-REEL disk into your disk drive.

	3. At the CLI prompt type DEMO-REEL:B&W-Donald

				4-2

	4. Press [Return].

	5. The black and white Donald animation plays.

	6. Click the left mouse button to stop the animation.

                     Loading an Animation File

This section shows you how to load an animation file.  The example
animation file for this lesson is called Flight.  The file is located on
the STUDIO disk.

Perform the following steps to load the animation.

	1. Start The Animation Studio if you haven't already.  The Pencil
	   Test screen is displayed.

	2. With the right button held down, move the pointer to the left
	   side of the Menu Bar to reveal the Project menu options.  With
	   the button still held down, move the pointer down to Open, the
	   second item on the list of options.  This displays the submenu.

	3. Move the pointer across, then down to CFast and release the 
	   button.  The screen should now display the Open CFast... file
	   requester.

				4-3

                  Figure 4-1.  Open CFast... Requester

	4. The file requester displays a listing of the contents of the
	   STUDIO disk.  Scroll through these file names (not all of them
	   are visible at one time) by pointing to the scroll box (the
	   black rectangle within the vertical column on the right side of
	   the requester) pressing the left mouse button and dragging it
	   up and down.  You can also scroll through the file names one at
	   a time by clicking the up and down arrows.  Find the Library
	   directory (or drawer) and double-click to open it.  This
	   displays the sample animation files that are contained in the
	   Library directory.

	5. Click on the file named Flight.

Notice that when you click on the file name the name appears in the edit
field beside File.  You can also type the filename into the edit field,
though it is easier to click on it.

				4-4

	6. Click Load to open the Flight file.  Another option for loading
	   the file is to double-click on the file name.

The disk drive spins for a few moments, and then the first cel of the
flying sample animation appears on the screen as shown below.

	               Figure 4-2. Cel 1 of Flight

                     Modifying Sample Animation Files

The sample animations that come with The Animation Studio can be altered
and then stored with a new file name.  Note that the reference animations
of Disney characters on the MORGUE disk are protected and cannot be saved
with changes made to them.

				4-5

The remainder of this lesson shows you how to make some changes to the
Flight animation file, give it a new name, and save it to disk.  This same
procedure is used anytime that you want to save an animation that you have
created.

Before you make any changes to the FLIGHT animation, click on the Projector
tool and run the animation.

Now make some changes to the Flight animation.  For example, try using the
Fill tool to make the bird's beak solid black.  To do this select the Fill
tool (which looks like a pouring bucket), point inside the beak, and click
the left mouse button.  Advance cel by cel until you have modified each cel
in the animation.

Feel free to experiment and try other modifications.

                      Saving an Animation File

When you have finished making changes to the Flight animation, you can save
it.  Use the following procedure to save a new animation file.

	1. Select the SAVE AS>>CFast... option from the Project menu.

	2. Insert a blank, formatted disk into your disk drive.

	3. Click on Volume.

	4. Double click on your blank disk name in the requester.

	5. Click the file box and type in Bird as the new file name.

				4-6

	6. Click on Save.

	7. If a requester displays asking you if you want to save the
	   Exposure Sheet, click on Yes.

Use the Save As option to save new animation projects for the first time or
to save modifications of existing animations when you still want to keep
the original animation.  Note that if you modify an animation and then save
it with the original file name, you will lose the original version.

Once you have saved an animation, you can make changes to it and save it
with the same file name by using the Save option of the Project menu.

				4-7

                             Chapter 5

              Lesson 3: Creating a Complete Animation

In this lesson you will create a complete color animation with background. 
You will start with an animated flour sack that is included with the sample
animation on the STUDIO disk.  The lesson will guide you in adding details
to the animation, saving it with a new file name, and then coloring each
cel and adding a background.

	                     Objectives

This lesson shows you how to:

	* Finish a pencil test animation

	* Clean up outlines and color an animation in Ink & Paint

	* Add a background to an animation

				5-1

                   Finishing a Pencil Test Animation

Start in the Pencil Test section and load the Anticipation animation from
the Library directory on the STUDIO disk.  If you're not sure how to do
this, refer to Loading an Animation located in the previous lesson.  Once
you load the Anticipation animation, your screen should display the first
cel as shown below.

	           Figure 5-1. Cel 1 of Sack Animation

The Anticipation animation shows an animated flour sack.  Before you make
any changes to the sack animation, click on the Projector tool and watch
the entire animation.  Notice that the movement performed by the
"inanimate" sack has a life-like quality.  This is achieved by two of the
techniques that are part of the magic of Disney-style animation: squash and
stretch, and anticipation.

				5-2

Squash and Stretch

Look at the contracting and expanding movement of the sack as it jumps and
lands.  The squashing and stretching adds elasticity to the jumping sack,
bringing a life-like quality to the animated sequence.  Note that while the
sack changes shape, the total volume remains relatively constant.

Anticipation

Also notice that the sack contracts downwards before jumping up.  This is
anticipation, the specific movement preceding a major action.  Anticipation
leads the eye through the sequence of motions clearly, based on the idea
that, "before you go one way, you must go the other way first."

Stop the animation projection by clicking either mouse button and then use
the arrow keys to advance one frame at a time to study the above
techniques.

		   Figure 5-2. Sack Showing Anticipation

				5-3

                  Adding Detail to the Sack Animation

The sack animation is one of the Example animations that come with The
Animation Studio.  The Example animations allow you to use the basic
animation sequence and make changes to it to create your own animations.

In this part of the tutorial, you will add a "face" to the flour sack.  The
"face" will consist of eyes, although you can make any modifications that
you want.

	1. Start at cel 1 and select the Freehand Line tool.  Draw open
	   eyes on the sack as shown below.

	          Figure 5-3. Sack Animation with Eyes

				5-4

	2. As the sack contracts in anticipation for the jump, draw
	   closing eyes on cel 2 and closed eyes on cels 3 through 7.

                   Figure 5-4. Sack with Closed Eyes

	3. Then as the sack stretches into the jump add open eyes to cels
	   8 through 13.

				5-5

                   Figure 5-5. Sack with Open Eyes

	4. Finally, draw closed eyes for the squash landing in cels 14
	   and 15 and then open the eyes for the remaining cels 16 through
	   21.

Press the A key to run the animation.  Then stop it and use the arrow keys
to flip through it cel by cel.  Use the Freehand Line tool to correct any
mistakes by drawing additional lines with the left button held down or by
erasing lines with the right button held down.

This completes the Pencil Test.  Before you leave the Pencil Test section
of the program, you might give the modified sack animation a new file name
and save it to your formatted disk.  Access the Save As CFast requester and
save the file as Sack by typing Sack in the box next to the word "File". 
If you're not sure how to do this, refer to Saving an Animation File in the
previous lesson of this tutorial.

				5-6

                            Ink & Paint

In the next part of this lesson, you will move to the Ink & Paint section
of The Animation Studio to clean up the pencil test outlines and add color.

If you are working on a small memory system, quit the Pencil Test and enter
Ink & Paint separately from the CLI.  Select Set # of Colors from the
Preferences menu.  Choose 8.  When the Low Memory message appears, click on
OK.

To move to Ink & Paint, pull down the Project menu and select the Ink &
Paint option.  Once the program loads, note that the Toolbox looks
different.  Some of the tools from the Pencil Test remain, but there are a
number of new tools and a color palette.  Your screen should look like the
one shown below.

		   Figure 5-6. Ink & Paint Screen

				5-7

To add color to the flour sack animation that you have been working on, you
must open the file you saved in the Pencil Test.  To do this, select the
Open CFast... option from the Project menu and then use the requester to
open the file that you named Sack.

The Animation Studio loads the cel area with the first cel of the sack
animation.

Filling Outlines

Now you are ready to add color to the pencil test outlines of the sack
animation.  To do this, you can use the Fill tool to fill the outlines with
selected colors from the palette.

Start by selecting the Fill on Color tool (the pouring bucket) and then
clicking on the color from the palette that you want to use for the sack. 
To select a color from the palette, move the pointer over the desired color
and click the left mouse button.

Then move the pointer over the sack, making sure that you are inside the
outline, and click the left mouse button.  Notice that the sack fills up
with the selected color to the boundary defined by the outline.

Fixing Leaks

Use the Forward Arrow key to advance to cel 2.  Fill the sack outline with
color.  Notice that the color fills the entire cel area.  That's because the
sack outline "leaked".  In order to contain the fill the outline must be
completely intact.

Select Undo from the Toolbox to return the cel to its unfilled state.

				5-8

Before you fill an outline you should check it for leaks.  To do this,
select the Magnify tool (which looks like a magnifying glass) from the
Toolbox.  Notice that the pointer becomes a rectangle.  Move the pointer
back to the Toolbox and click on the bottom half of the Zoom tool several
times, then move the pointer back over the cel area.  The Zoom tool is
located to the right of the Magnify tool.  The rectangle should have
increased in size.

                   Figure 5-7. Pointer Magnification

Look carefully at the outline of the sack and notice the area of the lower
right side of the sack where there is a small break in the outline.  Place
the rectangle pointer over that area and click the left mouse button.

At this point, the screen splits into two halves as shown below.  The upper
half is a magnification of the area selected in the lower

				5-9

one.  When magnified, you can see that the outline is composed of
individual black rectangles called pixels (picture elements).  Notice that
there is a break in the string of pixels that make up the outline.  This is
the leak.

                      Figure 5-8. Magnified Sack

To fix the leak, select the Freehand Line tool and then click on black in
the palette.  Move the pointer over the leak and press the left mouse
button to draw black pixels in the area of the leak.  If you draw extra
black pixels you can erase them by using the right mouse button to draw
with the white background color.  Note that you can use this same technique
to "clean up" any rough spots in your outlines from the pencil test.

Once the leak is fixed, turn off magnification by clicking on the Magnify
tool again.

				5-10

Select the Fill tool and the palette color for the sack and try filling the
outline again.  If it still leaks, repeat the above procedure until the
outline holds the fill color.

Paint Remaining Cels

Now return to cel 1.  To do this, type g.  When the Goto requester appears,
it shows a 1.  Click on OK.  This is a fast way to move to a specific cel.

Select another color from the palette to paint the eyes.  Fill the outline
for the eyes with the selected color.  Then select light gray or yellow for
the "white" of the eye and fill that area.  You must color the "white" of
the eye a different color from the background to prevent the background
from showing through the eyes.

When you have finished painting cel 1, advance to cel 2 and repeat the
process using the same colors.  Continue painting cels until all the cels
of the sack animation are painted.

                 Adding a Background to an Animation

After completing the painting of the cels of your animation, you can add a
background to complete the animation.  Backgrounds can be painted using Ink
& Paint, or they can be created as an IFF file using another paint package
and then loaded into The Animation Studio.  To complete the animation of
the jumping sack in this tutorial, there is a background file already
created for you to use.

				5-11

                             Tools Menu

The drawing tools in Ink & Paint are provided for you to touch up, correct,
or add to your pencil test animation.  These tools are very similar to the
Pencil Test tools.

                       Figure 5-6. Tools Menu

Freehand Line

Select the Freehand Line tool to draw with the foreground color (draw
holding the left mouse button down) or background color (draw holding the
right mouse button down).  Use this tool to patch areas in the drawing.

	Keyboard Command: d

				5-12

Line

Select the Line tool to create straight lines.  Use the left mouse button
to create lines with the foreground color, or the right mouse button to
draw lines with the background color.

	Keyboard Command: v

Rectangle

The top half of the Rectangle produces a filled rectangle using the
foreground color (left mouse button) or background color (right mouse
button), and the bottom half creates a rectangle filled with the current
dither pattern.

	Keyboard commands:
		Solid rectangle = r
		Dithered rectangle = R

Fill On Color

Select the Fill On Color tool (the pouring bucket icon) to fill a selected
enclosed shape with color.  Select a color from the palette or the screen
and move the mouse pointer to the cel.  Click on the area that you want to
fill.  Be sure that the shape is completely closed or the color will fill
outside the selected area.  Use the Freehand Line tool to patch any gaps in
the line.  Remember that you can use "Undo" to undo your previous action.

The Fill On Color tool fills to the boundaries of an enclosed shape.  If
you have two outlines that overlap, you select the Fill On Color tool, and
then click on one of the circles, the color fills the shape until it
reaches the boundaries of that shape.  In this instance, the color will not
fill the entire circle because the other circle overlaps it, and the Fill
On Color function only looks to the immediate boundaries of a shape.  It
does not recognize that there are two separate overlapping circles on
screen.

				5-13

Then the screen displays the Load Background requester.  Since you want to
add the background to all 21 cels of the sack animation, click on OK. 
Watch the monitor as the program adds the background to each cel.

If you are getting "Low on Memory" messages during this procedure, be sure
that you are following all the memory saving tips on page 2-3.

If you would like to save this animation, select the Save As option from
the project menu and rename the file.

                            End of Lesson

This completes the final lesson of the tutorial.  At this point you should
have mastered the basics of The Animation Studio.  Continue to experiment
and try out new techniques.  Have fun.

				5-14

                               Index

Adding a Background  5-11, 5-13
Adding Detail to the Sack Animation  5-4
Advance to Next Cel  3-10
Anticipation  5-2, 5-3
Brush/Creating a Brush Image  3-11
Clearing the Screen  3-7
Communicating with The Animation Studio  3-3
Contents of The Animation Studio  2-1, 3-2
	Demo-Reel Disk  2-2
	Morgue Disk  2-1
	Studio Disk  2-1
Create the First Cel  3-9
Creating a Complete Animation  5-1
Creating a Frisket  5-12
Creating a Simple Animation  3-9
Creating Boxes and Circles  3-7
Creating Outlines  3-6
Documentation  1-2
	Description of  1-2
	How to Use the Manuals  1-3
Exiting The Animation Studio  3-14
Files  4-1
Filling Outlines  5-8
Finishing Pencil Test Animation  5-2
Fixing Leaks  5-8
Frisket  5-12
	Requester  5-12
Getting Started  3-1, 3-2
Hardware Requirements  2-2
Help Screen  3-13
How to Use the Lessons  3-1
Ink & Paint  5-7
Installation - Hard Disk  2-4
Installation - Software  2-1, 2-2
Keyboard Commands  3-13
Load Cel Requester  5-13
Load the Demo-Reel Animation   4-2
Loading an Animation File  4-3
	Open Requester  4-4
Memory Saving Techniques  2-3
Menu Bar  3-5
Modifying a Sample Animation  4-5
Painting Cels  5-11
Palette  5-7
Pencil Test Screen  2-8
Running an Animation  3-13
Running The Animation Studio on a Low Memory System  2-3
Saving an Animation  4-6
Screen Elements  3-4
Security Requester/Program Copyright Protection  2-7
Squash and Stretch  5-3
Starting The Animation Studio  2-5
Technical Support  2-8
Toolbox  3-6

				Index - 1
