                   LUNAR DEATH v1.pd

	---------------------------------------

                    Payton R. White


	Mucho Importanto:  Turn off your screen blankers!

You are now reading the doc for LUNAR DEATH, assumably for one of three
reasons.  1)  You are one of those people that always read the docs 
before you try anything.  2)  You have tried playing LD already and 
don't quite understand it's crazy outerspace ways and you now are 
ready to learn how to really play.  3)  You tried running Lunar Death and 
it didn't work for some reason unbenounced to you.  There are three reasons
LD won't work on your system.

	1)  You need to have 1 meg of memory for Lunar Death to run

and here's the real big reason that Lunar Death didn't work on your 
machine this time:

	2)  The "tiny" font needed for this game isn't in your "fonts" 
		directory, or it is not one of the first 100 fonts 
		in your "fonts" directory.

	It is easy to install the "tiny" font in your fonts directory...
		it is included in this archive and just needs to be
		pushed around using your favorite directory utility
		or average cli commands.

	3)  Lunar Death must be on a disk called strangely enough...
		"LUNARDEATH".  If you don't want to put this game on
		a disk with this title, or you want it on your hard 
		drive with no problems, then do the following in your
		cli: 
		
		"assign LUNARDEATH: <name of place you want LD>"

		This should fix this problem, and if you don't want 
		to have to worry about this everytime you play, throw 
		the above command line in your start-up sequence with
		all the rest of the assigns.


On the topic of what is included with this archive... here's what came 
in this archive:
		
		fonts   		(dir)
		lunardata		(dir)
		music			(dir)
		LUNARDEATH		(the game)
		LUNARDEATH.info
		README			(this file)
		README.info

If all of this isn't there... you got screwed and you ought to be mad!
To run LUNAR DEATH just double-click its icon...
		
Now that that's out of the way... let's go on with the directions...



INTRODUCTION:Here is the basis of LUNAR DEATH:  kill the other guy.  The game
pits two lunar pods against each other for the control of various sectors of 
lunar real estate.  You shoot, the other guy shoots, etc., until someone dies.  


HOW TO PLAY:(this is in order of the screens you will see)

TITLE SCREEN:This is the pretty screen that has the LUNAR DEATH logo and is 
accompanied by some melow music.  This is the screen on which you 
choose how many levels you are going to play.  On this version you are 
limited to only playing three levels out of a possible 25.  If you spend
anytime playing this game you will realize that 3 levels hardly lets you
exercise your nuclear muscle and limits the importance of stockpiling 
strategy... you really want the real version.  Now that you have chosen
the number of levels, you can go on.


PURCHASING SCREEN:This is where you buy what you plan to kill your 
opponent with.  The blue player always chooses first on this screen.  For
the first level, you probably want to buy the 5-meg and be on with it.  
Everything else should be self explainatory and with a certain amount of
experimentation you will fully grasp LUNAR DEATH.  You can use either mouse
button to select your choice... select "DONE" when  done.  If you do
something you're not supposed to in LUNAR DEATH, you will certainly know it.

PLAY SCREEN:

WHOSE TURN IS IT?There are reciprocating lights on the far right and left
sides of the screen.  If they are red, then it is the red players turn, 
blue, then the blue player goes.  The first person to go is chosen 
randomly, then alternates for following screens.


WHERE AM I?The pods are the little gray things that are pulsing either red 
or blue located on the land form that has just appeared before you.


WHAT IS REALLY THE POINT?In the bottom right corner of the 
screen are all of the relevent stats.  First is wins, the number of wins each
player has.  Next is shield strength, the most important thing in this world.
You always start off with 150 points and everything that your opponent does 
to you takes away from that.  If you go negative, you die.  The next two 
stats are just stats. Level is the number of land forms you have gone 
through.  Round the number of rounds this current battle has gone through.  
A round is a shot from both players.  The more rounds you go, the higher the
stakes (the more that level is worth).  Use this to your advantage to get 
ass-kicking weapons.


HOW DO I SHOOT?This is how the buttons work:

POWER BUTTONS:  To change your power, press the mouse 
buttons on either the up or down power 'buttons'.  If you use the left 
mouse button, then your power will change 1 percent.  If you use 
the right mouse button, it will change 5 percent.

AIM BUTTONS: Aiming is pretty easy.  Us the aim 'buttons' on 
the screen in the same way as the power 'buttons'; left mouse 
button for 1 degree, right for 5 degrees.  You can see your "aimer" 
above your pod on the screen and it goes away after you shoot.  

WEAPON BUTTONS:  These buttons change which weapon you 
are using currently.  The weapons loop around so you can keep 
pressing the button in one direction to continually loop through the 
weapons.

WHAT'S WITH THE METERS?

POWER METER:  Shows how much power you are using.  The top 
is 100%, the bottom is 0%.

WEAPON ICON... THING:  This is the part of the console that tells you what 
weapon you are using.  The number below tells how much of that 
weapon you have.  The exceptions are the laser and the empty 
warhead.  The laser will indicate how much power you have 
available to use with the laser... more on the use of the laser later.  
There is no limit to the number of empty missles you can use, so 
the display shows N/A.  Use these to get your aim right.

WIND METER:This tells you the state of the wind at any given moment.  If 
the meter is left of center, the wind is blowing left, etc.  The further 
it is to either side, the stronger the wind.  Take this into account 
with your shots.  This changes after every shot.

GRAVITY METER:If the meter is all the way to the left, then 
gravity is 50% of some arbitrary bullshit gravitational constant.  If it 
is all the way to the right, then gravity is 150% of normal.  This also 
affects your shot.  This changes from level to level.

SPECIAL WEAPON NOTES:There are some intricacies involved in the use 
of some of the weapons that might elude one at first...

JUMP JETS:  Aim in the direction you want to go... press the fire button.  
The amount of power you are using has no effect on the shot, just the 
aim.  You are boosted for a set duration of time... if you run into any 
land on the way up, your jets are cut and you might fall back down 
from where you started.  Thus, don't waste your time jumping out of 
a huge pit.  If your jets run out in mid air, you will take damage for 
how far you have to fall back to the ground.  At the time of this 
release, the jumpjets were the most rescent addition and could 
probably use some ironing out.  Your donations could make this 
possible.

GUIDED MISSLES:  Just shoot, don't aim, don't adjust your power 
(you need to keep your aim in case the GM doesn't get a direct hit)  
The only consideration with the use of this is the wind.  If the wind 
isn't dead center, you might not have the sure kill.  On the other 
hand, if you  get a shot with no wind, you are a winner.  Also, if 
there is some geographic feature hindering a normal shot, this will 
also stop the guided missle.  A cruise missle might be in the works.

LASERS:  This is my favorite weapon to use, when I am way ahead 
and rubbing it in the nose of my apponent.  But, this is a good 
weapon at anytime in the game if you have a feel how to use it.  
The one restriction is that you can not use this against someone 
that is below you on the screen.  Otherwise, if you can, first make a 
shot to get your aim with low power, and the next round go for the 
kill with high power.  The laser shoots through 
anything and then some.  If it hits within a small radius of the center 
of your opponent, it really hurts...  The power meter is used here to 
decide what percentage of the total laser power available will be 
used in the shot.  The laser power available is displayed in the 
weapon window below the laser icon when said icon is selected.  

ETC.  All of the stuff I really want you to know:

HISTORY:  Lunar Death was conceived during the finals week of a very insane 
quarter in the Fall of 1991.  It was first written in some four-colour 
menagerie in Amiga-basic that was destined for mediocraty.  It took 
two or three sleepless nights filled with a bunch of coffee, but mostly beer.  
My roomates liked it, and that was good enough for me (they thought I was 
insane and the acid was finally coming back to haunt me).  Needless to say, 
finals week went well with only a few hours of studying for an engineering 
fortran class getting in the way.  Jump ahead to finals week, Winter Quarter.  
I finally laid my hands on AMOS basic and am ready to do some damage.  This 
did not end up being a three night programming experience, but a three month 
ordeal.  After a few months of debugging and game testing by some nuts in the
dorms, I can finally say this monkey is off my back... until the next update.  
And as I drink yet another Pabst with Lunar Death in my face I can proudly 
release this to the world.

WHY YOU WANT THE REGISTERED VERSION:First off, this is what you can do 
with the registered version... play 25 insane levels that show off the 
strategic possiblilities of LD and those playing.  After 3 levels, you 
are a tiny bit worked up, after 25 you are ready to do anything to come out 
victorious.  What happens if you pay?  You get a bootable disk that doesn't 
limit the number of levels you can play.  Plus, it will 
further the development of many things:

Lunar Death 2.xx  Gives a 1 player option to play the 
computer as well as a 3 and 4 player option... any combo of 
computer/person competitors.  New weapons, more weapons, 
more/different levels.  

Lunar Death 3-D.xx 2 players on a vector-field map in 
perspective.  It's hard to explain, but it will surely amaze.  Possible 
null modem capabilities... no more turn-takin... just fast action firing 
away.  Anything is possible.


in addition to the fine family of Lunar Death games... these are also 
in development at Skipper LTD:

Football 2:  A clone of the old handheld game by Mattel... 
with digitized players and a great deal of bells and whistles... 
Football 2 enters the nineties.

Murder Bike:  Picture this (in 16 color vector graphics with 
some bitmaps as well)  You hop on your 2069 model year Honda Obliterater 
motor cycle  And fly down a course more treacherous than any rolercoaster 
imagined... with no rails...  Now add to this picture... Another track 
with another racer... but, you aren't limited to staying on your 
track, and neither is he.  Oh yah, you've both got all kinds of guns.  
To make a long story short, it's a battle to the death 100's of feet 
over nothing and the competition knows what it's doing alot better 
than you.  (1 or 2 players, split screen, maybe more).

There's the pitch...

If it all sounds good then get your registered copy of lunar death by 
sending a check for $5.00 (that's it) made out to PAYTON WHITE to:


			Payton R. White

			584 Quail Dr.

			Lake Elsinore, CA 92530




If you want to E-mail me, I can be reached as P.WHITE24 on GEnie.




Send your address or I can't very well send it back to you, and any 
comments if you want, they are always appreciated.



DISCLAIMER:  If the software accompanying and including this 
software breaks or hurts or otherwise upsets your computer or your 
computer's user...  it is not my fault.  Thanks.

 


