Welcome to Roach Motel!

(C)1993 Ryan Scott
This game was created by Ryan Scott for PLAYFIELD! AMOS Newsletter
providing all the best AMOS specific information you'll find anywhere.

Roach Motel was created to show that AMOS can be used to create
commercial quality software - with a little work and a lot of know-how.
PLAYFIELD! aims to provide routines and techniques the AMOS programmer
can use and learn from to create the games or utilities of their dreams.
The shell of Roach Motel originally appeared in the Dec92 issue and
was subsequently refined, enhanced, and expanded to produce the game you
now have.  I sincerely hope you enjoy it.

The bottom of the first title screen has some options for you.  Pressing the
space bar takes you through the high score table, instruction screens, and
back to the title screen.  M toggles music.  You can use the joystick
up & down to select the start level.  If you have a 1 or more megabytes of
chip ram you may select a set of larger levels by moving the joystick left
or right.  Pressing ESC during the game will allow you to exit.  After
pressing it, press it again, then press any key or move the joystick to go
back to the game.  Only then will the game end and you will go back to the
title screen.  Pressing ESC any other time will exit the program entirely.
Space bar puts the game in pause mode, any key or joystick movement exits.
By the way, when Get Ready is being displayed, you are invincible for a few
seconds or until you move.
Bonus lives are awarded after completion of each level and at every 100000
points.

The object of the game is to collect all the spray cans to complete the
level.  If you touch any creatures you will lose one life except when 
stomping on a roach or hitting a roach or boyd with your head if you are
wearing the toupee!  Sound weird?  It is.

There are a few cheats in the program which I'm not going to reveal here.

The game can be copied to hard drive simply by dragging the PLAYFIELD!
directory icon to wherever you want it to go.  You may erase the highscores
by deleting the file 'highscoredata' in the PLAYFIELD! directory.  I leave
the execution of this task up to you!  Refer to a manual or something!
Roach Motel works equally well in PAL as NTSC mode, the only difference
being that in PAL mode you can see more of the playfield at one time.
You may find you need to adjust your screen position and size (dials at the
back of most monitors) to get see the entire screen with its borders.

This game is (C)opyright 1993 Ryan Scott.  It is released into the public
domain.  You may freely copy this program.  Go ahead and upload, download, or
overload this game as long as all files are included intact and unaltered.
This game may not be sold for profit under any circumstances.  It may be sold
as public domain for no more than the cost of the materials and mailing.
You may not alter any of the graphics, sound, or coding of this program
under any circumstances whatsoever.  Thanks!
Please spread this game everywhere.

Special thanks go to Michele Eileen, Sajid Awan the Techno God,
and David the Lanternman for extensive testing.  Also to Sajid, Paul Day
of LAB BBS (305) 456-0126, Jose Velez, and Eric Rankin for distribution,
encouragement, and support.  And thanks to you for getting a copy and
hopefully redistributing it!

If you want a sample copy of PLAYFIELD! please send $1 or a long SASE to
PLAYFIELD!
1836 SW 50th Terrace
Cape Coral FL 33914

please let me know where you got a hold of this game and how you like it!

