Short : Body Blows Galactic HD-Installer
Type : game/patch

Body Blows Galactic ECS From Team 17 HD Installer. Written in August 1995 by JOTD.

Some people complain about the fact that Team 17 games, although excellent, are NEVER
HD installable because it's easier to crack. That's a stupid policy because the game
will be cracked anyway by expert persons. The other reason is that Amiga users do not
own hard disks and with trackloading it is faster than even FFS. But most of the new
generation amiga users have got a HD now so stop it please, else it will be soon more
pleasant to play games on Pee Cees (where Team17 makes the games HD Installable) !!!!

Moreover, I noticed that the disk loading routines are VERY SLOW, and you can even see
it when it's on your HD. You sometimes have to wait for 2 or 3 seconds for some parts to
load, and that's not my fault, because my loading routines are optimized enough !

To install Body Blows Galactic on your HD, first copy the contents of the directory BBG2HD
in the target directory, then go into this directory and double-click the Install-BBG
icon. You'll be prompted to insert the four BBG disks and the contents of those
disks will be copied on your HD.

To play Body Blows Galactic, then, double-click the BBG icon, or type 'bbghd' in the shell
If you've got a AGA machine, you'll have to disable the AGA chipset if you want to see
the first Team 17 screen, although the rest of the game will have a proper display anyway.
To do this, I use setchiprev, so click on the BBG_FIX icon instead of BBG.

The game will load.

Note : you must have at least 3MB of fast RAM, and it is not guaranteed it will work
if your memory is fragmented.
Please do many tries but I ensure it works (not like the other installer for this game
that I never managed to use). Anyway, the executable file ahd uses sytem-friendly disks
reads and memory allocation.

512K free Chipmem should be enough to allow you to boot the game from Workbench without
crashing the system, except if your chipmem is fragmented. Typically, I never had any
problem with 2MB Chipmem to run the game !
Generally, if the game doesn't boot, you may not have enough chipmem, so boot with no
startup-sequence, and run the game.
You can also replace the iconx script I wrote in BBG by :

copy s:startup-sequence s:startup-sequence.backup	; backup your original startup-sequence
copy s:bbgstartup s:startup-sequence			; copy the startup for BBG
wait 5							; wait for the disks to finish
reboot							; reboot the system (or do it yourself !)

and bbgstartup could contain :

copy s:startup-sequence.backup s:startup-sequence	; restore your original startup-sequence
bbghd

This installer was written and tested on a A1200 68030/50 16MB RAM.
It should work with all CPUs, even 68040, but I didn't test it.

It works with the cracked version by N.O.M.A.D/Fairlight.

Many Thanx to :

- Frank Wille for PhxAss 4.18, a really cool assembler

- Martin Apel for ADis V1.3

- Nicola Salmoria for HexEd, a really cool Hex editor.

- Team 17 for their great games (I bought many original versions from them :
  Body Blows, Project X Special Edition, Assassin, QWAK, Overdrive, Alien Breed
  Special Edition).

Have fun with this cool game (even cooler on HD !)

JOTD'95
