

                     "RAZOR" Action game demo

                    (Version 0.1)-> first demo

       IMPORTANT: ALL THE MATERIAL INCLUDED IN THIS DEMO IS MY CREATION,
BUT THERE'S NO COPYRIGHT. FEEL FREE TO REDISTRIBUTE, INCLUDE IT ON ANY
CD-ROOM,COVERDISK ETC, BUT MAKE SURE THIS README FILE IS INCLUDED. AND
REMEMBER:THERE'S NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND IN THIS DEMO.


      I'm a loyal Amiga user and I'm living in Brazil(South America), and
here there's no suport of any kind to Amiga users, so we have to be very
clever and well informed to develop anything to contribute to the Amiga
platform. It's my first attempt to do programming, so don't blame me too
much if anything is not alright in the game:)  Feel free to mail me asking
for changes in the game.

      Did you want to enjoy some good old 2D-game? Tired of 3D-stuff?

      "Razor" is an horizontally scrolling shoot-em-up at the moment,but
I will include stages of vertically scrolling too. It's very classic stuff,
with power ups,end of level guardians and interesting graphics.I'm trying
to put a nostalgic feeling to it, making resemblance to good old Amiga
games of 1990-91, like R-Type,Z-Out,and the superb Project-X.The last is
hard to beat, but I wanna make my game the best as I can.

      Actually the classic feeling of the game make the gameplay be very
familiar, and some will say that there's nothing new to it. Alright, they
may be right, but any new ideas will be very welcome, primarily because
I don't have a game designer to help me. As I said, feel free to mail me
if you have new ideas :)


                        HOW TO USE THIS DEMO

      Just decompress the razor.lha archive to any place in your HD and
double-click the "RazorDemo" icon. Press the fire button on the joystick
in the title screen to start the game. Destroy the big attacking ships to
collect the power-ups. There's only three weapons in the game at the moment:

   -Double Fire (Charging Weapon:1) ->needs one power up
   -Laser Gun   (Charging Weapon:2) ->needs two power ups
   -Plasma Gun  (Charging Weapon:3) ->needs three power ups

      To actually activate the weapon you're charging, you have to pick-up
carefully the blue capsule that are transported by the large grey aircrafts
that pass sometimes by the top of the screen. Remember: when you die,you
loose all the power ups that you have picked, but once you have activate
some new weapon, you'll never loose the new weapon :)

                       ABOUT COMPATIBILITY:

      "Razor" must runs fine in any AGA Amiga provided you have some FastRAM,
but maybe it runs on a stock A1200 or even A600/A500, but it will be jerky
to play :(  That's because it's compiled and optimised in my Amiga1200, with
 FastRAM and accelerador board('030), and I still don't have the chance
to test it in other Amigas. Sorry about that, but soon I'll optimise it to a
wider range of Amiga models.


                      FUTURE IMPROVEMENTS:


      -Also vertically scrolling stages (like XP8 or Banshee)

      -Fully rendered gfx (at the moment,only the background is rendered)

      -Non-linear progression of the game (you'll choose the way you think
it's the better to reach the end of the game)->stage selection

      -Two or more different endings,depending on the way you choose

      -A lot more weapons

      -A big and epic intro sequence narrating the plot

      -Two or more configurations for your craft(Robot/Spaceship,like in
Mangas comics and movies), each with vantages and desavantages

      -More game tunes and better sfx



                           BUG REPORT:


      -There's a instability in the speed of the player's spaceship;

      -There's one part of the scrolling background that breaks (in the
middle of the stage)

      -Sometimes you pickup the capsule and the weapon is NOT activated :(

      -The power up system is actually a bit awkward

      -The player's spaceship is actually too fast in some cases

      -Some enemy shoots are too fast to be avoided


      I will fix these bugs to release the next demo version, meanwhile
 if you find more bugs report it to me :)


                         WHEN IT'LL BE COMPLETE

      I'll probabily release this game as a very cheap shareware game, but
if it's turn to be good enough some publisher may show interest, but the
real aim is to give support to the Amiga platform in some way, and I found
that doing a game is something that I should enjoy.

      If everything goes alright, "Razor" will be finished in three or four
months. But in the meantime, new,improved versions of the demo will appear.


                              THE AUTOR
                     (AND THE PEOPLE THAT HELPED HIM)


      My complete name is Dante Mendes De Patta, but in the  Internet  I've
the nickname (or pseudonymous?) Juan Fernandez. This name is a bit easier
to remember and type than my real one, I hope :)  

      I don't have a Internet connection at home, in the moment, so I have
to rely on the computers of my university to access the Net. But in my
university there's no way to have a mailbox, because it's a recent  (and
instable) network, so I currently use Hotmail as my actual Email address.

      Hopefully, in a few weeks I'll buy a modem for my beloved Amiga and
I'll have a Internet connection at home.

      I have to give thanks to the people that helped me in this project:

      * Luís Carlos Zardo -> This man is responsable for the majority of
the graphics in the game and also the title logo. He was an avid Amiga user,
but recently he bought a PowerMacintosh and seens to have lost interest in
the Amiga :(

      * Jonny Bolkol -> He's the man behind the music modules that plays
 during the game. He still have an A500 with Protracker.

      * Luís Gustavo Castelan Póvoas -> It's the local Amiga-guru.He knows
a lot about the Amiga. He help with some technical advice. He's called
 Toolshed in the IRC.


      Lastly, I say that the Amiga future may be nice if the PowerUp
 program fit well. So, Amigans, do not give up, and  let's always do
something to defend our interests. 


      Thanks and don't forget to write!


      E-mail Address:

      fundermunder@hotmail.com


      Snail-mail Address:

      Dante Mendes De Patta
      Rua Hercílio de Aquino 247-Itaguaçú
      Florianópolis-SC  Brazil

      PO Box: 88085-470






