			  GOLDRUNNER

Taken from an ST SEWER SOFTWARE docs disk. Typed in by Sewer Possum. ŠEdited by parasite.
 

        The Earth is dying, Man has so polluted his environment, it 
can no longer sustain him. New worlds have been found. Ships are ready
for a mass migration. Between the old legacy and the new, hope lie -
the Ringworlds of Triton. Artificial worlds, of unknown composition
and built by an  unconceivable technology, the Ringworlds are inhabited 
by the most hostile race in the universe.
They will destroy anything within range of their awesome weapons.
Yet their great power might be their weakness. They never considered
that small, one manned fighters- against which they have only the most 
rudimentary of defences,- would dare to invade their inviolable space. 
Only the most skilful and daring of space pilots have any chance of
success. You are chosen. An ex-space pirate, once the scourge of the 
authorities, you carry the desperate hopes of a ravaged earth. 
You are - The GOLDRUNNER.

Loading
To load the game, turn off your computer and remove all peripherals.
Put your GOLDRUNNER disk in drive A and turn on your computer. The
program will auto-boot and enter its display mode. Press key 1 for
a 1 player game or key 2 for a 2 player game.

Controls
You may control the game using the mouse, keyboard or joystick in the
non mouse port. There is no need to choose your controller, you
may use any of them at any time. Keyboard control is by means of the
arrow keys, the Space Bar and CAPS LOCK or ALT keys. If you are using 
a joystick, you will need the space bar for booster control. In 
addition the game can be paused/restarted with the F8 and F9 keys. 
F1 causes a reset and F2 toggles between 50Hz and 60Hz operation, 
giving a slightly different game. This is intended primarily for 
American users, who may benefit from using 50Hz operation if the 
monitor will allow it. Try it and see. F10 is a conversation piece. 

Playing the Game
    To destroy a ring, you must fly on the inside of it destroying
anything which can be shot. Each ring has a certain amount of energy 
in it. Any machinery or building destoyed will reduce this energy. 
When the ring energy has been reduced to zero the ring is dead and 
you may leave by the exit building. Flying defences will not hurt 
you but their disrupter bombs will. Most ground objects can be flown 
over, but the taller ones (those which cast longer shadows) will 
destroy you - avoid them, they cannot be destroyed. Each of your 
spacecraft initially has wing lasers, auxillary boosters and an armour
strength of 5 units. As it is hit by disrupter bombs, both armour and 
craft ability are reduced.
    Travelling between rings is totally safe. Bonus points can be
scored here. (To exit a level, fly into the largest hangar on that 
level after reducing ring energy to zero. Don't attempt to exit the 
level until you've destoyed sufficient ground targets or you'll be 
minus one spacecraft!)

Status
    The right hand side of the screen is a status display, showing
the the high score at the top and your present score at the bottom.
Also shown is the current player number and the ring number. The 3 
centre icons represent ring energy, wing lasers and auxillary boosters. 
Current armour strength is shown below the status area and the number 
of spacecraft remaining is shown above the status area.