                             HOSTAGES

Taken from an ST SEWER SOFTWARE docs disk. Typed in by Lowercase. 
Edited by Parasite.
                       

Start of the game.
     Some people have been taken hostage in an Embassy (probably a 
foreign Amiga owner's group). The terrorists holding the hostages 
have control of the three levels of the building.
     The number of hostages and terorists is controlled by the 
level of game chosen. So too is the terrorists' response.
     
Choice of Mission.
     After the kidnapping of the hostages you are given a choice 
on the degree of difficulty of the game.
     You can determine the duration of the ultimatum, the number 
and the aggressiveness of the terrorists and their reaction 
capacity. You can choose one of the following.
     LIEUTENANT With a low number of terrorists with weak 
aggression, good for trainig.
     CAPTAIN The number of terrorists increases and so does their 
reaction speed.
     COMMANDER This is the big one! The number of terrorists and 
hostages is at a maximum. The player must, without mistake and 
taking particular attention to the placement and co-ordination of 
the team rescue all the hostages. Not a single mistake during the 
approach and exploration of the building is allowed.
          
     From the second menu you choose either:
     TRAINING (no hostages)
     TARGET
     ULTIMATUM
     RESCUE
     JUPITER
     
     Use the joystick or arrow keys to choose.
     At the end of a mission your result will be given. The 
instructions say in a newspaper format, but in translation from 
the French this has been lost. All you get is some poor grammar. 
(Perhaps someone can remedy this!!)
     
     You have three marksmen to position. To effectively keep 
watch on the three sides of the building you must position these 
men in the locations marked on the first map.
     Use F1 F2 F3 to choose which marksman and then make your way 
through the streets to the locations. Pressing ESC will show you 
where you are on the map.
     Joystick movement is traditional, eg: Left, Right, 
also forward roll to the left, and right. Up enters a building or 
jumps behind a fence, down is lie on the floor. Down and 
left/right crawls along the ground.
     You must avoid having your men spotted by the search lights. 
As soon as one of your men has been spotted the terrorists will 
open fire. 
     You can hide in doorways or behind fences or in windows.
     Once all three snipers are positioned you will move to the 
next section. (Abort the helicopter sequence with ESC, it saves 
time)
     The next three men, F4 F5 F6, are posited on the roof of the 
building.
     You can now toggle between the three snipers and the three 
assault team members.
     To move the assault crew. 
     Joystick right: descend on rope.
              left: stop on rope.
              up: go up.
              fire: push away from wall.
     Pushing away from the wall and landing at a window will 
shatter it and you will enter the room.
     Watch for shadows at the window...they shoot!
     You can toggle between an assault member and a sniper.
     In sniper mode you have the sights of the rifle. Shadows at 
the window could be terrorists, hostages or even your own men.
     
Inside the Embassy.
     This is almost Dungeon Master-like perspective. A smal map in 
the top left indicates your chosen man as an arrow, its direction 
is the way you are facing.
     Use the stick to rotate your man.
     When you encounter a terrorist your assault member's name 
flashes on the panel. Move quickly because the terrorists shoot 
first and ask questions later, if at all.
     Spray the machine gun left to right for maximum effect. Don't 
shoot hostages, it doesn't help the score.
     To guide a hostage approach him in the room (hostages are 
white dots) and he will follow you. Make your way to the third 
floor to a room without windows (top left of map).
     The game is over once all terrorists have been eliminated and 
hostages rescued.
     Success is getting all hostages without engaging the enemy.
     Success is almost bloody impossible!

     Pause button P
