                            SILENT SERVICE 

Typed in by MR ROGERS. Edited by Parasite.


Keyboard Commands 
F1 Select the Maps and Charts battle station screen. If you are already at
the Maps and Charts, pressing the key will center the map on your sub.
F2 Select the Bridge battle station screen. This is only possible when the
sub is on the surface. 
F3 Select the Periscope/Binocular battle station screen. This display is
only available if the sub is of periscope depth or on the surface
F4 Select the Gauges and Instruments battle station screen. 
F5 Select the Damage Reports battle station screen.
F6 Display the Quartermaster's Log for the current patrol.
F8 Return to the patrol Selection display search for another convoy.
This ends the game if you are playing a Convoy Action.
Z (Zoom) Expand the situation map display, used to take a closer look of
nearby ships and terrain. 
X (Unzoom) Compress the situation map display, Used to get a wider view of
ship locations and land areas. 
0-4 Throttle settings: All Stop,1/3, 2/3,Full, Flank Speeds.
D Causes your sub to dive to a deeper depth. When you have reached the
desired depth, cancel this command by pressing Return.
S Causes your sub to come up to a lesser depth. Cancel this command by
pressing Return. 
R Reverse the engines. Note that the effect of the rudders is reversed if
the sub is proceeding in reverse. 
CONTROL-E (Emergency) Blow emergency tanks. This will often halt an
otherwise fatal dive. However, it will often bring the sub to the surface.
You may only use this once per engagement.
Command Key Description 
P Raise/Lower the periscope. This command also sets the visual bearing
to be the same as your sub's heading. (Straight ahead)
I Identify target on scope. 
T Fire torpedo. Bow or AFT tubes will be selected automatically depending on
which faces the target more directly. Note that four torpedoes or gun shells
may be active at any one time, if a fifth torpedo is fired before the
first completes its run, the first torpedo will end its run prematurely
and the new torpedo will be launched. 
G Fire the 4-inch deck gun. 
+ Add 25 yards to the deck gun range deflection.
- Subtract 25 yards from the deck gun range deflection.
F Increase the time scale to cause the simulation to proceed more rapidly.
N Return to normal time scale. 
Crsr Rt. - Left Rudder. Press again for Full Left Rudder. To cancel press
Return.
Crsr Lt. - Right Rudder. Press again for Full Right Rudder. To cancel Špress Return.

RETURN Cancel turn and dive commands. 
W Pause the simulation - press any key to continue. You may also pause by
going to the Conning Tower screen. 
SPACE BAR (Conning Tower) - Return to the conning tower screen.
? In a desperate situation a sub might release debris and oil which would
rise to the surface. The objective was to convince the escorts that the sub
had been sunk. You may use this play once per engagement.
A Enter Angle on Bow estimate. Angle of Bow is entered in degrees by
holding the stick left or right. Press the fire button to enter the estimate.
Use positive numbers for port and negative numbers for Starboard. ie: 45
Degrees Starboard is - 045. 