        		 STARQUAKE 
		
Taken from an ST SEWER SOFTWARE docs disk. Typed in by SEWER RAT. ŠEdited by Parasite.
            

THE GAME

A black hole has appeared at the edge of the galaxy and belched 
forth a new planet. However the planet's core is unstable and 
will implode, destroying the whole galaxy unless it can be re-
stabilised. You control BLOB, the Bio-Logically Operated Being, 
who has been chosen to rebuild the planets core. You start the 
game next to your crashed ship.

At the top of the screen is the status display which details 
(from left to right) your score, lives left, battery level, supply 
of bridging units, ammmunition level and objects carried. Below 
this display is your view of the planet's surface. Using the 
control keys detailed below you can move left and right and rise
up on bridging units which enable you to reach ledges and cross
gaps. However, these units disolve into nothing after a few 
seconds. You can also pickup useful objects as you move around
(see below).

Beneath the surface of the planet you will find docking posts. 
Many contain hoverpads which enable you to fly through the 
caverns quickly. However you will not be able to pick up objects 
while flying around, so you will have to deposit the hoverpad in 
a vacant docking post then go back in search of the objects.

Your task is to search out the planet's core which is located at 
the centre of the underground complex. Here you will discover 
which nine objects you will need to collect to re-stabilise the 
core. Go in search of these, then bring them back to the core 
where they will be taken from you.
You can only carry four objects at once. If you pick up a fifth
the first object you picked up will be dropped. You can trade one 
object  for another at any of the Cheops pyramdids, but you will 
need the Access card to get inside.

There are 15 teleporters located around the planet. When you 
enter one of these its five letter codeword will be displayed. 
Make a note of these codewords as you can teleport from one 
machine to the other by entering the codeword for the particular 
teleporter.

GAME CONTROLS

KEYBOARD       JOYSTICK               RESULT
Z              Left                   Move Left
X              Right                  Move Right
J              Down                   Move down (Hoverpad) or lay
                                      bridging unit
I              Up                     Move up (Hoverpad) or  pick
                                      up an object
Spacebar       Fire                   Fire energy bolt

Pause the game: Press F1, Restart with any joystick action or 
movement key.
Abort the game: Press ESC twice
Display high scores: Press H from the title screen. The ST 
version includes a demo mode which commences after a short 
time, or can be activated by pressing D.

HINTS
- There are a few secret passages to make it easier to solve the
  game.
- Smash through crash traps from a great height to access new
  areas.
- Collect the Access card to get through security doors and into
  the Cheops pyramids.
- Trade items in your inventory for more useful ones, at any of
  the pyramids.
- Collect joysticks for extra lives, and other objects to build
  up your supplies of bridging units, battery level and stock of 
  ammunition.
- Draw a map to help you navigate round  the caverns - this is 
  better than trying to memorise all 512 screens!