                           THE BARD'S TALE

Taken from an ST SEWER SOFTWARE docs disk. Edited by Parasite.


          GETTING STARTED:  Note:  Make sure your shift lock is off,
          and there are no joysticks or cartridges plugged into your
          system. To leave the title page press the space bar.

          MAKING A CHARACTER DISK:  Before you begin playing, you
          will need to create your own character disk, a disk the
          computer can write as you play, to keep track of your
          fortunes and misfortunes.  Use the following steps to make
          a character disk which contains a completely outfitted and
          ready to go banned of adventures named "ATEAM"".  Get a
          blank disk or one that contains information you no longer
          need.  Select M)ake a disk and follow the instructions to
          make a copy of your Character disk, which you will find on
          the flip side of your boot disk.  This process can be time
          consuming.  If you wish, you may use another copy utility
          instead of M)ake a disk.  After copying the character disk,
          reboot the system following the steps outlined above.

          When the prompt appears asking for your character disk,
          insert the copy you made, then press any key. (Again, make
          sure your joysticks are unplugged).  The Utilities menu
          which appears contains 3 choices.  To enter the Adventure's
          Guild so you can start playing, just press "S" for start
          game.  For information about the other two choices, see
          utilities menu below.

          The ATEAM:  the character disk you made in step one already
          contains a good beginning party of adventurers who are
          equipt and ready to go.  To use them, just type "A" to add
          a character, and then type "*ATEAM" to load the entire
          party.  Type "E" to exit the Guild and enter the town of
          Skara Brae.  To learn how to create your own characters,
          form your own parties, remove characters or rearrange their
          order, see below.  HINT:  The first dungeon is the wine
          cellar in the only tavern in town which serves wine.  It's
          on Rakhir Street.

                               SAFETY AND DEATH

          Face it.  The sort of streets where you run into wandering
          Kobolds, Werewolves and Orcs are dangerous.  And the
          streets of Skara Brae are especially dangerous at night.
          Beginning parties, therefore, should not be shy about
          spending the night in the Adventures Guild.  When you leave
          the Adventures Guild the clock is always set ahead to the
          next morning.

          Don't dispair if you lose a favorite ATEAM member.  First
          delete him from your character disk (with the delete
          command from the disk menu in the Adventurers Guild).  Then
          use the copy characters command in the Utilities menu
          (described below) to copy the original from the back of the
          boot disk or the most recently saved version from a backup
          of your character disk.  Finally, add him to your party.

                                  MOVING`ABOUT

                   I or Return       - move forward
                   K                 - Kick a door open
                   J or Left Arrow   - turn left
                   L or Right Arrow  - turn right

                               VIEWING CHARACTERS

          Press the number (1-6) of the character whose statistics
          you want to view.  In the sub-menu, press:
          E to E(quip) a character with an item.  You will be
          prompted for the item number (1-8).  Press O to unequip all
          of a character's items.
          T to T(rade) an item.  Type the item number at the prompt.
          To trade gold, type G.  Then type the number of the
          character you want to give the item to.
          D to D(rop) an item.  Type the item number at the prompt.
          P to P(ool) all gold.  This gives all the party's gold to
          the character being viewed.
          Press the SPACEBAR to leave the View Character mode.

                                 UTILITIES`MENU

          To produce this menu, start you system with the Bard's Tale
          Boot Disk and insert a Character Disk when prompted to do
          so.  When the menu appears, press:
          S to S(tart) playing the game.
          C to C(opy) characters from one character disk to another.
          Just follow the prompts as they appear.  The disk you are
          copying from is the source disk, the one you are copying to
          is the target disk.
          M to M(ake) a new Character disk.

                                COMBAT`COMMANDS

          If monsters attack, press F to F(ight) or R to R(un).
          `(Note, you don't always get to run just because you want
          to.) Or you can press P for Party attack at any time to
          voluntarily enter intra-party combat.  In combat, press:
          A to Attack monsters in first 2 ranks, hand-to-hand.
          Available to the first 3 party members.
          D to Defend.  This lessens the chance of damage from a
          monster in that round.
          U to Use a magical item.  The character must have been
          equipped with the item in advance.
          B to sing on of the 6 Bard's tunes for one combat round.
          Available only to Bards.
          C to Cast a spell.  Type in the code letters for the spell
          at the prompt.  Available to magic users only.
          H to Hide in the shadows.  Available only to rogues.
          Left Arrow and Right Arrow to speed up or slow down the
          combat message scrolling rate.

                           OTHER`ADVENTURING COMMANDS

          C to Cast a spell when not in combat.  At the prompt, type
          the number of the character who will cast the spell, then
          type the code letters for the spell.
          P to start intra-party combat at any time with a Party
          Attack.
          B to sing one of the 6 Bard's tunes while wandering.
          Available only to Bards.
          E to go up a portal.  The party must have a levitation
          spell in operation.  Works in dungeons only.
          D to go down a portal. Works in dungeons only.
          ? to learn the name of the street your party is on, and the
          time of day.
          N to establish a New Order for the party members.  At the
          prompt, type the numbers of the members in the order you
          want them to march.
          U to Use an item.  Some items, like torches, must be
          activated with this command in order to work.  Type the
          character number who has the item at the prompt, then pick
          the item (by typing its number) from the list which will
          appear.  Some items run out of power after only one use.
          V to turn sound on/off.
          ESC to pause/resume the game.

                 HOW TO FORM PARTIES AND CREATE NEW CHARACTERS

          Characters can be created and parties formed only in the
          Adventurer's Guild.  When you're ready to leave the Guild,
          type E for Exit.  Here are the other commands available to
          you there. Press:
          C to Check the roster of characters and party names
          contained on the Character disk.  Party names are indicated
          with an *.  The characters that belong to a party may be
          anywhere in the list.
          A to load a party or Add a character to an already loaded
          party.  Type either a character name or a party name at the
          prompt.  Party names must begin with an * (e.g., *ATEAM).
          A party can contain up to 6 adventurers and must contain at
          least one adventurer to use the Exit command.
          R to Remove a character from a party.  This saves all
          current character status information to disk.
          N to establish a New marching order for a party.
          D to bring up a set of additional Disk options so you can
          create a new character, save a party name, delete a
          character from the disk or leave the game, saving the
          current character status to disk.  After pressing D to
          bring up the disk options, press:
          C to create a new character. Select the race and class for
          the character as prompted, then type in a character name up
          to 15 letters and spaces.  Press Return to enter the name.
          A disk can hold up to 30 characters.
          S to Save a party name.  IMPORTANT:  This command does not
          save the characters themselves.  It only saves a roster of
          the currently loaded characters under the name you type in.
           When you use this command, the program will automatically
          add an asterisk to the name to mark it as the name of a
          party.  You must type the asterisk first when you want to
          load the party again.
          D to Delete a character from a character disk to make room
          for another character.
          L to Leave the game, saving all current character status
          information to disk.
          E to Exit the disk options menu and return to the Guild.

                                    ADDENDA

          The higher the intelligence of your magic user, the faster
          the rate of increase in spell points through experience.
          But the beginning number of spell points is randomly
          bestowed at creation.

          The words Save and Exit in connections with the game were
          meant as common verbs rather than command names.  The save
          command in the Guild disk menu only does one thing:  It
          saves a Roster of Currently loaded Characters under a Party
          name.  To write the current status of a single character to
          disk, use the REMOVE command to remove him from the party.
          To write the current status of all loaded characters to
          disk, use the LEAVE GAME command in the Main Guild Menu.
          If you turn off the power without using the Leave Command,
          all currently loaded characters will lose all their gold
          regardless of when they acquired it.

                          Documentation Compliments Of

                            KEYBOARD EXPRESS NETWORK

          <><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>

                                   THE MANUAL
          ABOUT FANTASY ROLE PLAYING:
          The Bard's Tale is a fantasy role-playing game.  First in a
          series of TALES OF THE UNKNOWN, this one is set in the city
          of Skara Brae.
          Like Other fantasy role-playing games, there are three ob-
          jectives you will be trying to accomplish.  How you do this
          is up to you...
          Your most important goal is to complete the quest built into
          the game.  In Bard's Tale the city of Skara Brae is
          threatened by an evil mage called 'MANGAR'.  You must find
          Mangar and Persuade him to release the once-harmonious city
          from his evil control.
          But Mangar is protected by layers of obstacles, mazes and
          evil henchmen.  Your second goal is to develop characters
          capable of survoiving these barriers.  These characters are
          your alter ego in Bard's Tale.  They act according to your
          commands, but over the course of the game they change, much
          as real people do over a lifetime.  They improve their
          skills in magic, combat, stealth, etc.  They amass wealth
          and treasured objects.  And they worry about dying too
          soon.
          Your third goal is to explore the entire world of Bard's
          Tale.  There are numberous goodies, puzzles, and special
          places in Skara Brae.  Part of the fun is finding them, and
          discovering the layout of this fantasy world.  How do you
          get into the walled off towers?  What's in the castle?
          Where are the legendary catacombs of Skara Brae?  Skara
          Brae awaits you!!!!!!

                                A QUICK OVERVIEW

          An Orientation for beginners, a quick start guide for
          experts!!!!
          HOW TO USE THIS DOCUMENTATION:
          This documentation has three parts.  This overview is
          designed to give first-time adventure gamers a quick sense
          of the overall gameplay and give experienced fantasy
          role-players all they need to know to start quickly.
          The rest of the docs is reference material about how
          various parts of Bard's Tale operates, including character
          building and development, places and mapping, the combat
          system and the magic system.  There is also a listing and
          description of all the magic spells and the beginning items
          available in the Bard's Tale.  Finally, there are hints and
          clues interspersed throughout the manual.

          1.  Command Summary Docs
          This is Part 1 of the Bard's Tale Documentation, which
          lists keystroke commands, disk utilities and step-by-step
          instructions for starting up.  If you are an experienced
          adventurer, part 1 gives you most of what you need to know;
          the rest is covered in this section.
          2.  Adventurer's Guild
          The Guild is where you start each time.  This is the ONLY
          spot a party can be formed, characters created, or
          characters saved to disk.
          3.  Use The Pre-Built Party
          For your convenience, you will find a pre-built party
          already waiting for you when you enter the Guild for the
          first time.  The party is called '*ATEAM'.  They are even
          outfitted with weapons and armor affordable to characters
          of their humble stations.  For more about characters and
          party selections see 'CHARACTERS' listed further on in this
          socumentation.
          4.  Use City Map
          Mapping the dungeons and mazes is up to you.  You even have
          to figure out how to get into the mazes on your own.  One
          clue:  each of the 16 mazes is set up on a 22 by 22 grid.  
          North is to the top of the screen, East is to the right.  
          Be sure to go to every square; there are lots of specials.
          For more about the City of Skara Brae see 'Places'.
          5.  Combat
          Only your first 3 characters and the first 2 rows of
          monsters can attack in hand-to-hand combat.
          There are several new combat commands including PARTY 
          ATTACK, for gighting between party members; BARD SONG, for
          making magic by playing music; HIDE IN SHADOWS, to avoid
          combat.  For more information see the 'Combat System'.
          6.  Magic
          There are 4 classes of Magic Users, each with unique
          magical capabilities:
          CONJURERS: can create objects and head adventurers.
          MAGICIANS: can bestow magical effects on comman items.
          SORCERORS: can create illusions and heighten awareness.
          WIZARDS: can summon and control supernatural creatures.

          Sorceror and Wizard classes are not abailable to first
          level adventurers.  To create one of these, you must change
          class of a Magic User who has achieved 3rd level magic
          spells in one [for Sorceror] or two [for Wizard] other
          magical arts.  Class change  takes place in the Review
          Board.  A Magic User who successfully learns all 7 levels
          of spells for each of the 4 Magic Classes is an ARCHMAGE,
          one of the most powerful characters in Bard's Tale.  Once a
          Magic User leaves a class, he can never return to it.
          Magic Users qualify to learn next level spells based on
          their experience levels, but it takes gold to actually
          learn the new spells.
          Casting spells uses SPELL POINTS in different amounts
          depending on the spell.  Spell points are regenerated
          automatically when a Magic User is in the City in the
          daytime, and may also be regenerated in ROSCOE'S ENERGY
          EMPORIUM, or special 'REGEN' squares in some dungeons.  For
          more informations see 'THE MAGIC SYSTEM & MAGIC SPELLS'.
          7.  The Bard
          The Bard makes magic by playing music.  He needs an
          instrument, of course.  He can play in combat or during
          exploration, with different effect.  Only one tune at a
          time.  And one tune for every experience level.  Then he
          needs to get a drink from any nearby tavern.
          You may listen to the music or not.  See docs part 1.
          8.  Time
          Time waits for no one.  Even without keystrokes, time
          passes, from day to night and back again.
          Nighttime is especially nasty.  The really evil monsters
          hit the city streets at night, looking for characters just
          like you!  And, what's worse, you use up spell points
          faster, because spell points only regenerate in daylight.
          Now you know enough to get started, if you are an
          experienced adventurer.  By the way, the tavern on Rakhir
          Street is the only tavern that serves wine.  And that wine
          'goes down' easily.  You may wish to drop by to wet the
          whistle of your Bard.  Good Luck!!!

                                   CHARACTERS

          Races
          Humans are not the only race in the world of the Bard's
          Tale.  Others are more magically inclined, stronger and
          smarter.  Part of the fun of a fantasy rol-playing game is
          getting to know these different races, and forming your
          party accordingly.  The races and their descriptions are:
          Human:  While possibly being of hardier stock, this charact-
          er is nonetheless like you or me.
          Elf:  Patterned after the Tolkien elf, the elf is slight of
          build, frequently taller than a human, and very inclined to
          magic.
          Dwarf:  The Dwarven people are short and stout, extremely
          strong and healthy, but not amazingly intelligent [i.e.
          excellent fighters].
          Hobbit:  Hobbits are slightly smaller than Dwarves but are
          nimble and desterous.  Just the right make-up for a rogue.
          Half-Elf:  These crossbreeds are usually blond and fair
          skinned, like elves, and get some added size and strength
          from their human ancestry.
          Half Orc:  An orc is a large, goblin-like creature often
          found working for evil wizards.  The Half Orc, being half
          human, is not quite as despicable as his orc parent, but
          you wouldn't want to date one.
          Gnome:  Gnomes closely resemble dwarves, but have less hair
          and even shorter tempers.  They are also more magically
          inclined, as a rule.
          Character Classes
          In fantasy role-playing games, characters choose different
          'Classes' or professions.  There is no single best class;
          each has its own strengths.  Your characters must use
          teamwork to succeed.
          Class selection is the most important aspect of creating a
          character in Bard's Tale.  There are 10 different classes
          of characters, but only 8 can be selected for a newly
          generated character.  Class types carry with them different
          abilities and limitations, as are roughly covered below:
          Warrior:  The base fighter-type in Bard's Tale, warriors
          can use nearly every weapon there is.  For every 4 levels
          of experience after the 1st Warriors get an extra attack
          ability in combat.
          Paladin:  Paladins are fighters who have sworn to abstain
          from all evil, and to uphold honor and purity in all places.
          They can use most weapons and even some that no other
          fighters can.  They get multiple attacks at higher levels.
          They also have a greatly increased resistance to evil magic.
          Rogue:  A professional thief with so-so combat ability, the
          rogue can hide in shadows, search for traps and disarm them.
          Without a rogue your party will pay very dearly for the
          booty it wins.
          Bard:  The Bard is a wandering minstrel.  You'll see him
          with a tankard of ale in front of him in the less reputable
          taverns-the rowdier the better.
          Bards were once warriors, and can still use most warrior
          weapons.  But they turned to music instead and now play
          songs with an almost magical effect on other characters.
          Bards don't get the warrior's advantage of extra attacks in
          combat anymore-but their magic is so unique, it is almost
          impossible to survive in Skara Brae without one.
          Any true Bard has 6 tunes on his lips, though to play them
          he must have an instrument equipped.  A song played as the
          part is exploring is long-lasting and continues even after
          the party returns from combat mode, even if other songs
          were played during combat.  Any songs played during combat
          are abbreviated and so create different magical effects
          than the full non-combat versions.  The shorter combat
          versions don't endure as long either, only one round of
          fighting.
          Only one Bard tune can be played at a time.  If a second
          one is played while the first is still playing (by the same
          or a different Bard), the first will end.  A bard can play
          as many tunes as he has experience levels before his throat
          gets dry.  Then it's off to a tavern for a drink to
          rejuvenate his voice.  Tough duty, but someone has to do it!
          Bard songs vary according to the difficulty of the dungeon.
          When the going gets tough, the Bard goes drinking.
          Hunter:  An assassin, a mercenary, a ninja.  The hunter can
          use most weapons, and has the ability [which grows with
          experience] to do critical hits in combat [i.e. to attack a
          nerve center or other vital area and instantly kill an opp-
          onent].  A good skill.
          Monk:  A martial artist, an almost inhuman fighting machine
          trained to fight without weapons or armor.  The monk can
          use them, but, at higher levels particularly, often does
          better without.
          Conjurer:  One of the 4 classes of Magic Users, Magicians
          deal with magic as it affects physical objects [i.e
          enchanting a sword, making armor stronger, making a dungeon
          wall disappear].
          Sorcerer:  Sorcerers are Magic Users who deal with the
          creation and manipulation of illusion.  Due to the power of
          sorcerer spells, this class is not available to newly
          created characters.
          Wizard:  Wizards are Magic Users who are dedicated to the
          summoning and binding of various supernatural creatures.
          These creatures are not friendly to humankind and trying
          tocontrol them is extremely hazardous.  The Wizard-class is
          not available to new characters either.  For more on magic
          classes see further below.
          Character Attributes
          Each character you create has 5 basic attributes which
          define his physical and mental prowess.  When you create a
          character each attribute is randomly assigned a value from
          1 to 18, with the higher number reflecting higher capabil-
          ity.
          Strength:  [Shown as 'ST' on the screen] is a physical
          power and chiefly affects the amount of damage a character
          can do to an opponent in hand-to-hand combat.  Make sure
          your fighting characters are strong.
          Intelligence [IQ]:  Intelligence is mental power.  A high
          intelligence rating will enable your Magic Users to get
          bonus spell points.
          Dexterity [DX]:  Measures agility & nimbleness.  A high
          score makes your characters harder to hit and helps them
          strike the first blow in combat.
          Constitution [CN]:  Measures healthiness.  It takes more
          damage to kill a character with a high constitution score.
          This is reflected in bonus 'hit points', the characters
          life span.
          Luck [LK]:  Luck is an ambiguous attribute, as it has a
          number of unseen effects on gameplay.  For example, lucky
          characters are more likely to resist evil magic and avoid
          nasty traps.
          Other Character Statistics
          Armor Class [AC]:  This statistic reflects the level of
          protection a character has from physical attack.  In
          classic fantasy rol-playing style, the armor class starts
          at 10 for a totally unprotected, unarmored character with
          low dexterity, and goes down to '-10' [called LO] as his
          protection improves by armor, spells or other means.
          Hit Points [HITS]:  Hit points measure the damage a
          character can take before he is killed.  The 'HITS'
          statistic shows his potential at fullest helath, rather
          than current status.
          Condition [COND]:  Condition shows the characters present
          number of hit points.  For example, if a character with 10
          hit points is wounded for 7 hit points, his Condition will
          drop to 3.  Another wound of 3 or more hit points will kill
          him.  If he is fully healed, his Condition will return to
          the full 10 again.  [Even though his Condition score
          changes, his Hit Points stay at 10].
          Spell Points [SP PT]:  This shows current spell point status
          Points are used up with each cast of a magic spell.  If a
          Conjurer has 20 spell points and casts a Mage Flame spell
          at a cost of 2 spell points, his new total would be 18.  A
          character's maximum spell points are listed in his
          view-character mode.
          Experience Points:  This measures abilities gained by
          experience, the higher the number, the better the
          character.  Characters get experience points for successful
          combat, according to the difficulty of the fight and the
          number of characters who survive.  The amount is indicated
          after every successful combat.  A character's running total
          of experience points is indicated in view-mode.
          Gold:  Gold is the unit of currency in this world.  Your
          characters start with just barely enough gold to buy the
          armor and weapons they need to survive.  There are two ways
          to get rich enough to buy better equipment: taking gold
          from the monsters you defeat in combat or selling items you
          find in dungeons.  The first way is more fun!!!
          Level [LV 1]:  Level is a general measure of achievement
          within a character's class.  Level 1 is a novice, Level 13,
          for example, is required to become a Master of a Magic User
          class.
          The Review Board will promote a character to higher levels
          based on his experience points, but only upon the
          character's in-person request.  An advance in level is very
          important because it generally means an increase in
          attribute scores, hit points, spell points and other abilit-
          ies.
          Spell Levels [e.g. MAGI 1]:  This shows the highest group
          of magic spells a character cna use in any of the 4 classes
          of Magic Users.  There are 7 groups of magic spells for
          each different class.
          To learn a new group of magic spells [a 'spell level'] a
          Magic User must advance two experience levels. [Note: spell
          levels and experience levels are not the same thing].  For
          any of the 4 magic classes, a Magic User advances as follows

                  Experience Level                  Spell Level
                          1                              1
                          2                              1
                          3                              2
                          5                              3
                          7                              4
                          9                              5
                          11                             6
                          13                             7
                          14 [and up]                    7 [maximum]

          To change class to Sorceror, a Magic User must first have
          learned Spell Level 3 [or higher] in at least one magical
          art.  To change to Wizard, a Maic User must first have
          learned Spell Level 3 [or higher] in two other magical arts.
          Items:  Items fall into 10 Categories: Weapons, shields,
          armor, helms, gloves, musical instruments, figurines,
          rings, wands, and miscellaneous.  Only one item of each
          type can be EQUIPPED for use at one time.  For example, two
          different shields cannot be used at once to protect a
          character, though the spare shield could be toted around.
          Some items can only be used by specific characters.  For
          example, only Bard's can use musical instruments.  An item
          which can never be used by a character is marked with an
          zero with a line thru it when he examines it in his view
          mode or in the Equipment Shoppe.  An item which has been
          equipped is marked with a half circle with a stem on top.
          A character can carry up to 8 different items.
          How To Create A Character
          1.  While i the Adventurer's Guild, select a race.
          2.  Character attribute numbers displayed are a combination
          of genes and luck.  For each different race there is a
          lowest possible number for each attribute [the 'genes'].
          The computer then adds a random number [the 'luck'] to each
          attribute.
          3.  If you are satisified with the 'roll of the dice',
          choose a character class, then name this character.  If you
          aren't satisified 'reroll the dice.'
          4.  After being named, the character will be saved to disk,
          ready to adventure.

                                     PLACES

          If you ever get lost press the '?' key and the program will 
          tell you where you are and what time of day it is!!!!

          Unmarked Buildings
          Most buildings in Skara Brae are unmarked.  But some of
          them are inhabited by the corrupt creatures who have
          skulked into Skara Brae.  So kick in a few doors and find
          them.  Remember that fighting is good for you; its the only
          way to build up enough experience to challenge Mangar.  You
          should be disappointed when you kick in a door, screaming a
          battle cry, and find it empty.  No fun.
          When you exit a building and enter the street, the building
          will be behind you, and you will be facing the building or
          landmark across the street.
          The Adventurer's Guild
          The Guild is like a union hall where adventurers 'hang out'
          hoping to join a party.  This is where you form a party,
          and where all adventures begin.
          Garth's Equipment Shoppe
          Garth is one of yesterday's almost forgotten heros, now
          retired from active adventuring to supply tomorrow's would-
          be greats.  At Garth's Shoppe characters can buy armor and
          weapons, sell items, have items identified, or pool all the
          party's gold for buying expensive items.  Due to a deal
          with the city blacksmith, Garth has an infinite supply of
          basic armor and supplies.  But unique items found in
          labyrinths, even if sold to Garth, remain in his inventory
          only until they are sold.
          Occasionally an item won in combat will remain unidentified,
          this mean that its general type might be apparent [e.g.
          shield, ring] but not which exact type [e.g. Dragon shield,
          ring of power].  Garth can identify this item for you for a
          price!!!!!!!!
          The Review Board
          The Review Board is a group of high level representatives
          from all 10 different classes.  Upon your request in
          person, the Board will determine whether a character has
          accumulated enough experience points for advancement to
          higher levels.  The Board teaches new spells to Magic Users
          who qualify for higher spell levels, too, but charges for
          this training.  It pays to rent.
          You may have todo a bit of exploring to locate the Review
          Board.  And it's closed at night.
          Taverns
          Taverns are the Bard's favorite places for gossip and
          refreshment.  There's even a tavern named after him.  Watch
          him carefully though, the Bard has a tendency to overtip the
          bartender.
          Dungeon Delving
          The term 'dungeon' refers to any indoor labyrinth, designed
          for mapping, combat and puzzle interaction.  They take a
          variety of forms, from lowers to catacombs, and have a
          varied number of levels for each.  You can go up or down to
          levels higher and lower than the one you're on via
          stairways, portals, and teleportation.
          Stairways are not visible from a distance.  But when you
          move onto one you will be asked if you wish to ascent or
          descend.
          Portals are hole in the floors and ceilings, and are
          visible from a distance.  You will not go through a portal
          merely by standing on it, you must first command your char-
          acter to do so.  If he jumps down through a portal, he will
          be damaged from the fall unless he is using a levitation
          spell.  The only way to go up through a portal is by levit-
          ation.
          The locations of dungeon entrances are well-kept secrets,
          but there are plenty of hints in Skara Brae.
          Roscoe's Energy Emporium
          If your spell points aren't rechargin fast enough, go see
          Roscoe.  But be prepared for electrifyingly high fees!!!
          Temples
          Temples are divine places of resurrection and complete
          healing.  In fact, this is the only place to cure
          characters who have been withered or turned to stone.  A
          resurrected character retains all the items, gold and exper-
          ience points he had before dying, but he comes to life with
          only 1 hit point.  When he finds out how much it costs to
          be resurrected, he may turn over in his grave.

          Tips from the Underground: Places
          1.  Your 1st 3 dungeons should be the sewers, the catacombs
          and the castle [in that order].  Each is progressively
          tougher.  Don't attempt the catacombs with a party of level
          9 or higher characters.
          2.  Esplore and map every square in every maze.  There are
          Magical Mouths that give hints.  There are 1-of-a-kind
          magic items and spell regeneration zones.  Good maps will
          show you the logical spots for secret doors and secret
          rooms, too.
          3.  Avoid traps.  Higher level rogues are excellent at
          opening chests, but when in doubt use the 'TRAPZAP' spell.
          TRZP is guaranteed to work with no harm to the party,
          unless, of course, the trap is protected by even more power-
          ful magic.  In fact, you can use TRZP to disarm any traps
          you encounter.  Gas Cloud traps have doomed many brave but
          foolish adventurers.  If you set off a trap and nothing
          happens, you were lucky not good.  You could have been
          killed.
          4.  Be sure that your party is fully healed before entering
          a new dungeon.
          5.  When you are finding your bearings in a maze, remember
          that each succeeding level goes UP in a tower or castle and
          DOWN in a dungeon.

                               THE COMBAT SYSTEM

          The Bard's Tale is a game of fighting.  It's the only way
          to build experience.  Fortunately, Mangar and his gruesome
          creatures are very evil, so don't worry about their feelings
          kill them, if you can!!
          Combat with 'monsters' [the generic term for all opponents]
          occurs both randomly and at set locations.  You can also
          initate intra-party combat at almost any time, in case one
          of your members is turned to the dark side.  At th outset
          of combat a list of foes will be given, broken down into
          the number of foes in each group.  The manimum is 99
          monsters per group, with up to 4 groups.
          Combat is divided into a series of 'rounds', like a boxing
          match.  At the start of each round, each of your characters
          must decide what action he will undertake in the upcoming
          melee, unless, of course, your party decides to run away.
          A menu of possible selections will appear for each
          character.  These options are as follows:
          Attack Foes:  The physically assault foes in the first or
          second group of monsters.
          Party Attack:  To assault another member of the party,
          including special members.
          Defend:  Do not interact this round - reduces chance of
          being hit.
          Use An Item:  Make use of a magical item held in the charact
          er's inventory and currently equipped.  This may require
          specifying a target for the effect.
          Bard Song:  Bards can play a short tune to affect the party
          or the foremost group of monsters in some fashion.
          Cast A Spell:  Cast a spell at the party or a group of
          foes.  The spell code must be entered, and a target ident-
          ified.
          Hide In Shadows:  A rogue can try to avoid combat altogether
          by hiding and, if successful, will be skipped as a target
          of attack in the upcoming combat round.

          The first 3 characters in your party can be attacked
          physically by monsters, and can attack back.  The last 3
          characters can only be struck by magical attacks, and can
          only attack back with magic.  This simulates your first 3
          characters being up on the front line of attack, with the
          last 3 characters acting as backup in case one of the first
          3 is killed.  The first two groups of monsters are in a
          similar position; they are the only monsters who can attack
          or be attacked physically.
          Once all the choices for your characters have been entered,
          the round begins.  The most dexterous characters or monsters
          usually make the first strike, but luck, character level
          and character class also affect this.  In evenly matched
          fights, the outcome often depends on which side gets in the
          first blow.
          The rate of scrolling of the combat messages can be speeded
          or slowed.  See the Command Summary list of keystrokes for
          details.
          At the end of a combat round, dead monsters will be removed
          from the ranks of your foes, and dead characters will be
          shuffled back to the end of your party.  A fresh group of
          monsters may also advance into the first two ranks to give
          their fellow monsters a breather.
          At the end of combat, treasure and experience points will
          be split amoung the battle's survivors.
          SPECIAL MEMBERS
          The 'special slot' [marked 's'] is for monsters who can
          become part of your party.  They can join by:
          1.  Being summoned or created as an illusion, or some other
          artifice related to a cast spell.
          2.  Introducing themselves to the party and offering their
          services as a comrade.
          Specials cannot be controlled in battle, they choose their
          own attack mode and generally go after the primary group of
          monsters the party is facing.  Specials are cleared out of
          the S slot when killed.  Illusionary specials [created by a
          sorcerer] are cleared out if any foes disbelieve them.
          If a non-illusionary special is attacked by another member
          of the party for any reason, it will turn immediately
          hostile and fight until defeated!!!!
          Tips From The Underground:  Combat
          1.  Usually the highest desterity character attacks first.
          For particularly nasty monsters [like blue dragons] attack
          with your highest desterity characters first.  Your less
          dexterous characters may not survive long enough to get in
          a first strike.
          2.  Use your spells and Bard songs to lower the armor class
          of your entire party.  The lower the better.
          3.  If you are attacked by more than 2 groups of monsters,
          concentrate on Magic Users first.  If you cannot kill off
          all the magic-using monsters, you may want to cast
          anti-magic spells to protect against illusions, possissions
          and other spells.
          4.  You can minimize damage by killing off all but one mon-
          ster in either of the first two attacking groups.  As a
          general rule, attack groups with only one monster last,
          unless it is a deadly monster.
          5.  Many of the undead monsters are capable of draingin
          experience levels, turning characters old and gray or even
          turning characters to stone.  Treat the undead with respect.
          In other words, kill them quickly!
          6.  Be prepared to die a lot with level 1 and 2 characters.
          Especially at night.  Especially when you don't have any
          weapons and are just walking to Garth's Shoppe.  It might
          even be a good idea to stay close to a Temple at night, so
          you can quickly heal any wounds.
          7.  Fill the special slot quickly.  Conjure or summon a
          monster or create an illusion, if necessary.  The special
          member will take a lot of heat off your fighters.  Monsters
          tend to attack special members first.
          8.  Monsters are smart.  They usually attack your most vul-
          nerable characters first, unless one of your members repre-
          sents a significant threat.

                                THE MAGIC SYSTEM

          Magic is power.  It can make the difference between success
          and failure in the Bard's Tale.
          It is not necessary or wise to rely on magic, though,
          because magic is by no means foolproof.  There are some
          places where magic never functions, and some monsters who
          are highly resistant to spells.  Sometimes you just have to
          wade in with fists flying and get dirty.
          The Best way to tell that your party has wandered into an
          anti-magic zone is that all residual spells except light
          spells are cancelled.
          Residual spells are magic spells that keep working for more
          than just an instant.  Light spells, trap detection, secret
          door detection and magical armor are some examples.  Most
          residual spells cause a graphic symbol to appear in the
          central blank strip on the screen, to keep the player aware
          that the duration hasn't yet expired.
          All spells have a point cost.  In other words, al spells
          cost the mage casting them a bit of his internal energy.
          This energy is returned automatically in direct sunlight,
          and may be regenerated at Roscoe's Energy Emporium or in
          special regeneration zones you have to discover.
          There are magical items hidden in  the dungeons and carried
          by the monsters of Bard's Tale.  Magical weapons do extra
          damage.  Magical armor gives extra protection.  Other
          magical items radiate special energies.  There are even
          magic keys and talismans necessary to get into certain im-
          portant parts of the game.  The most powerful magic items
          are secreted in the most challenging dungeons and are guard-
          ed by ferocious monsters.  When you win one, you should be
          very proud and very happy.  They can be the key to success
          against the wickedest opponents.
          To cast a spell, you type in 4-letter codes which are a
          rough abbreviation of the spell name.  The entire list of
          spells, codes and spell points required are listed below.
          All Magic Users, even level 1 novices, start the game with
          knowledge of all level 1 spells in their magical art.
          Rather than learning one spell at a time, Magic Users
          always learn whole groups [spell levels] of spells at once.
           Its the closest thing to mass production in Skara Brae.
          Here is a description of the 4 magical arts:

          Conjuring
          Conjuring deals with the instantaneous creation of objects
          and effects through the channeling of a mage's power.  Con-
          jurer spells are potent, but not unlimited in effect, since
          the exercise of creation takes a large amount of energy
          toproduce even a moderate effect.
          A conjurer can also produce effects that distort non-solid
          things to produce new effects, like the distortion of space
          and time required to teleport human bodies toa new location.
          Magic
          Magic [meaning the art practiced by a magician] deals with
          bestowing magical effects on common objects.  The items do
          not become magical, but radiate fields of power for the
          duration of a spell [which is usually the length of
          combat].
          The gist of Magic is that it can increase an item's capabil-
          ity, or change its form to something totally different.
          Some examples:  making a sword do greater damage, making
          dungeon walls glow with a magical light, or causing a wall
          to totally vanish for 1 move.
          Sorcery
          The byword of sorcery is 'seeing is believing'.  Sorcery
          does not deal with a physical manifestation, but rather a
          creation of illusion and a tapping into a heightened sense
          of awareness.
          An illusion is an image envisioned by the spell caster,
          which he then lays over the retinas of all who watch,
          augmenting this with appropriate stimulation of nerve
          endings to fool the other 4 senses.  The human mind,
          believing an illusionary creation to be real, can be hurt
          or even killed by it, unless it is somehow disbelieved.
          A sorcerer, with the aid of his art, can also perceeive
          certain special things hidden from view.
          Widardry
          Wizardry deals with the summoning and control of supernatura
          l creatures.  The wizard has fewer spells than the other
          three classes, but his are by far the most potent.
          The creatures he can summon come from another plane of
          existance, called the 'negative plane'.  They join the
          special slot in the party, and will fight until defeated.
          The wizard has some ability to trap and control normal
          monsters, as well
          Mages who have learned at least 3 spell levels in an art may
          elect to change to another mage class at any time.  Thus, a
          level 5 conjurer could choose to become a level 1 magician.
           His experience points would be reset to 0, but he would re-
          tain his previous attributes, hit points, spell points, and
          all knowledge of his conjurer spells.  He would be unable
          to learn any higher conjurer spells, however, once a mage
          leaves a magic art, he cannot return to it.
          A  mage can become a conjurer, magician, or corcerer as a
          second class.  A mage can become a conjurer, magician, sorc-
          erer, or wizard as a third class.  A mage who has knowledge
          of all 7 levels of spells in all 4 classes is called an
          Archmage, and is one of the most powerful personages in the
          world of the Bard's Tale.

                               SPELL KEY GLOSSARY

          Range Terms
          View:      spell affects line of sight
          1 Foe:     spell affects a single monster
          All Foes:  spell affects all monsters you face
          Group:     spell affects 1 of 4 monster groups
          Self:      spell affects spellcaster only
          30':       3 squares in the direction you fact
          Char:      one of 6 party members or special
          Party:     spell affects all 6 party members and special=
          Special:   spell affects 'S' slot only; summoned creature
                     enters combat next round.
          Duration Terms
          Combat:    spell lasts until all monsters or all party mem-
                     bers are killed or until party runs away.
          Short:     spell lasts only a few minutes.
          Medium:    spell lasts a little longer than short.
          Long:      spell lasts twice as long as 'short'
          Indef.:    spell lasts until party enters the Adventurer's
                     Guild or an anti-magic zone.

                                CONJURER SPELLS

          Spell Name/Description         Code, Pt. Cost,Range,Duration
          Conjurer Spells - Level 1
          MAGE FLAME, a small, mobile to   MAFL, 2, View, Medium
          rch will appear & float above
          the spell caster as he travels
          ARC FIRE, a fan of blue flames   ARFI, 3, 1 Foe,...
          will shoot from the caster's
          fingers, doing 1-4 hits of dam-
          age to a select opponent, times
          caster's level.
          SORCERER SHIELD, the mage is     SOSH, 3, Self, Combat
          protected by an invisible sh-
          ield of magic that turns aside
          many blows that would otherwise
          kill him.
          TRAP ZAP, this spell will dis-   TRZP, 2, 30',...
          arm any trap within 20 feet, in
          the direction the party is fac-
          ing.  It will also disarm traps
          on chests.
          Level 2
          FREEZE FOES, binds your enemies  FRFO, 3, Group, Combat
          with a magical force, slowing
          their movements & making them
          easier to hit.
          KIEL'S`MAGIC`COMPASS, compass    MACO, 3,...,Medium
          of shimmering magelight appears
          above the party, telling the
          direction they face.
          BATTLESKILL, increases one of    BASK, 4, Char, Combat
          your party memeber's skill with
          weapons, increasing the accur-
          acy and ferocity of his attacks
          WORD OF HEALING, with the utt-   WOHL, 4, Char,...
          erance of a single word the
          spell caster can cure a party
          member of minor wounds, healing
          2-8 points of damage.
          Level 3
          ARCYNES MAGESTAR, a bright       MAST, 5, Group,...
          flare will ignite in front of a
          group of your enemies, tempor-
          arily blinding them & causing
          them to miss the next combat
          round.
          LESSER REVELATION, this is an    LERE, 5, View, Long
          extended Mage Flame spell which
          also reveals secret doors.
          LEVITATION, partially negates    LEVI, 4, Party, Short
          the effect of gravity on the
          party, causing them to float
          over traps or up through port-
          als.
          WARSTRIKE, causes a spray of     WAST, 5, Group, ...
          energy to spring from the cast-
          er's ginger, sizzling a group
          of opponents for 4-16 hits dam-
          age.
          Level 4
          ELIK'S INSTANT WOLF, caster can  INWO, 6, Special, ...
          make a real wolf appear & join
          the party, fighting in its de-
          fense.
          FLESH RESTORE, powerful healing  FLRE, 6, Char, ...
          spell will restore 6-24 hit
          points to a party member & cure
          poisoning & insanity.
          POISON STRIKE, hurls porcupine   POST, 6, Foe, ...
          sharp needles from the mages
          finger into a selected monster
          poisoning it.
          Level 5
          GREATER REVELATION, functions    GRRE, 7, View, Long
          like a lesser revelation spell
          only it illuminates a wider area
          WRATH FO VALHALLA, makes a mem-  WROV, 7, Char, Combat
          ber of your party fight with the
          strength and accuracy of ancient
          Norse heroes for the entire com-
          bat.
          SHOCK - SPHERE, a large glove of SHSP, 7, Group,...
          intense wlectrical energy envel-
          opes a group of enemies doing
          8-32 hits of damage.
          Level 6
          ELIK'S INSTANT OGRE, this incan- INOG, 9, Special, ...
          tation will cause a real ogre
          to appear and join the party.
          MAJOR LEVITATION, will make the  MALE, 8, Party, Indef.
          party levitate as does the level
          3 spell, but its effects will
          last until dispelled.
          Level 7
          FLESH ANEW, behaves like the     FLAN, 12, party, ...
          flesh restore spell, except that
          it will affect every member of
          the party.
          APPORT ARCANE, allows the party  APAR, 15, Party, ...
          to teleport anywhere within a
          dungeon, except for places pro-
          tected by teleportation shields.

          Magician Spells
          Level 1
          VORPAL PLATING, causes the wea-  VOPL, 3, Char, Combat
          pon [or hands] of a party mem-
          ber to be covered with a magical
          field, which causes him to do
          an additional 2-8 points of dam-
          age.
          AIR ARMOR, will make the air     AIAR, 3, Self, Combat
          around the spell caster bind it-
          self into a weightless suit of
          armor.
          SABHARS STEELLIGHT SPELL, causes STLI, 2, View, Short
          all metal near the party to glow
          with a magical light, illuminat-
          ing the surrounding area.
          SCRY SITE, the walls will speak  SCSI, 2, Party, ...
          under direction of the spell,
          revealing to the spell caster
          his location in the labyrinth.
          Level 2
          HOLY WATER, a spray of water     HOWA, 4, 1 Foe, ...
          will emanate from the mage's
          fingers, doing 6-24 points of
          damage to any undead foe. [e.g.
          skeleton, zombie, vampire].
          WITHER STRIKE, any foe at whom   WIST, 5, 1 Foe, ...
          this spell is cast is likely to
          be turned old, thus reducing
          his ability to attack and def-
          end in combat.
          MAGE GAUNTLETS, makes a party    MAGA, 5, Char, Combat
          member's hands [or weapons] more
          deadly, adding 4-16 points of
          damage to every wound he inflicts
          AREA ENCHANT, will cause the     AREN, 5, 30', Short
          dungeon walls within 30' of a
          stairway to call out, if the
          party is travelling toward it.
          Level 3
          YBARRA'S MYSTIC SHIELD, the air  MYSH, 6, Party, Medium
          in front of the party will bind
          itself into metallic hardness
          and will accompany the party
          when it mpoves, as a sort of
          invisible shield.
          OSCON'S OGRESTRENGTH, allows a   OGST, 6, Char, Combat
          member of your party to damage
          monsters as if he were as in-
          credibly strong as on ogre.
          MITHRIL MIGHT, increases the     MIMI, 7, Party, Combat
          armor protection of each party
          member by enhancing their armors
          natural strength by magic.
          STARFLARE, the air surrounding   STFL, 6, Group, ...
          a group of your enemies will
          instantly ignite, causing them
          to be burnt for 6-24 damage
          points.
          Level 4
          SPECTRE TOUCH, will drain a      SPTO, 8, 1 Foe, ...
          single enemy of 12-48 points
          of damage, as if touched by a
          spectre.
          DRAGON BREATH, allows the mage   DRBR, 7, Group, ...
          to breathe fire at a group of
          foes, doing 8-32 points of dam-
          age to each.
          SABHAR'S STONELIGHT SPELL, makes STSI, 7, View, Medium
          all stone and earth within range
          of the party glow with magical
          light, revealing even secret
          doors.
          Level 5
          ANTI-MAGIC, causes the ground    ANMA, 8, Party, Combat
          to absorb a portion of the mag-
          ical energies cast at the party,
          frequently allowing the members
          to escape all damage.  Also aids
          in disblieving illusions and in
          turning back magical fire, like
          dragon's breath.
          AKERS ANIMATED SWORD, a magical  ANSW, 8, Spec, Combat
          sword will apear and fight like
          a summonded monster in defense
          of the party.
          STONE TOUCH, will often turn an  STTO, 8, 1 Foe, ...
          enemy to stone, or a stone mon-
          ster from living stone to dead
          stone, but it doesn't always
          work.
          Level 6
          PHASE DOOR, will alter the str-  PHDO, 9, 1 Wall, 1 Move
          ucture of almost any wall dir-
          ectly in front of the party,
          turning it to air for exactly
          1 move.
          YBARRAS MYSTICAL COAT OF ARMOR,  YMCA, 10, Party, Indef.
          causes an effect like 'air armor'
          to cover every member of the
          party, lasting indefinitely.
          Level 7
          RESTORATION, makes all wounds    REST, 12, Party, ...
          disappear as your entire party
          is reforged into unflawed bod-
          ies.  Also cures poisoning &
          insanity.
          DEATHSTRIKE, is very likely to   DEST, 14, 1 Foe, ...
          instantly kill 1 selected enemy
          big or small.

                                SORCEROR SPELLS

          Level 1
          MANGARS MIND JAB, the mage casts MIJA, 3, 1 Foe, ...
          a concentrated blast of psychic
          energy at 1 opponent doing 2-8
          hits of damage for each exper-
          ience level of the mage.
          PHASE BLUR, the entire party     PHBL, 2, Party, Combat
          will seem to waver and blue in
          the sight of the monsters, mak-
          ing the party very difficult
          to strike.
          LOCATE TRAPS, the spell caster   LOTR, 2, 30', Short
          will be able to sense a trap
          within 30', if he faces it.
          HYPNOTIC IMAGE, if successfully  HYIM, 3, Group, ...
          cast, will make a group of your
          enemies miss the following
          attack round.
          Level 2
          DISBELIEVE, will reveal the true DISB, 4, Party, ...
          nature of any illusion attacking
          the party, causing it to inst-
          antly vanish.
          TARGET-DUMMY, a magical illusion TADU, 4, Spec, Combat
          appears in the party's special
          slot.  Unable to attack, it will
          serve to draw enemy attacks to
          himself.

          MANGAR'S MIND FIST, a higher     MIFI, 4, 1 Foe, ...
          power 'mind jab' does 3-12 hits
          of damage to 1 foe, times the
          experience level of the maga.
          WORD OF FEAR, will make a group  FEAR, 4, Group, Combat
          of your enemies shake in fear
          reducing their ability to attack
          and do damage.
          Level 3
          WIND WOLF, creates an illusion-  WIWO, 5, Spec, ...
          ary wolf to join the party.  This
          & other illusions are only eff-
          ective as long as an enemy bel-
          ieves them.  Depending on power
          & location, the monster may see
          through the illusion & cause it
          to vanish.
          KYLEARNANS VANISHING SPELL, the  VANI, 6, self, Combat
          mage casting this spell will turn
          nearly invisible in the eyes of
          his enemies, who will have great
          difficulty in striking him.
          SECOND SIGHT, the mage will ex-  SESI, 6, 30', Medium
          perience heightened awareness
          and be able to sense stairways,
          special encounters, spell neg-
          ation zones, & other unusual
          occurrences.
          CURSE, causes a group of your    CURS, 5, Group, Combat
          enemies to fear you greatly,
          lessening their morale and their
          ability to hit and damage you.
          Level 4
          CAT EYES, members of the mages   CAEY, 7, View, Indef
          party will all receive perfect
          night-vision, which will last
          indefinitely.
          WIND WARRIOR, will create the    WIWA, 6, Spec, ...
          illusion of a battle-ready war-
          rior that joins your party.
          KYLEARNANS INVISIBILITY SPELL,   INVI, 7, Party, Combat
          will perform a vanishing spell
          on the entire party
          Level 5
          WIND OGRE, will create the ill-  WIOG, 7, Party, ...
          usion of an ogre which will
          accompany fight with your party.
          DISRUPT ILLUSION, will destroy   DIIL, 8, Party, Combat
          any illusion fighting the party
          and any new illusions created
          later in the combat.  It will
          also point out any dopplegangers
          in the party.
          MANGARS MIND BLADE, a sharp ex-  MIBL, 8, All Foes, ...
          plosion of psychic energy that
          inflicts 10-40 hits to each &
          every enemy you face.
          Level 6
          WIND DRAGON, will create an ill- WIDR, 10, Spec, ...
          usionary red dragon to fight
          with your party.
          MIND WARP, will make a member of MIWP, 8, Char, ...
          your party go totally insane.
          Useful for possessions.
          Level 7
          WIND GIANT, will create an ill-  WIGI, 12, Spec, ...
          usionary storm giant, to join
          with and fight for your party.
          SORCERER SIGHT, functions the    SOSI, 11, 30', Indef
          same as the Second Sight Spell
          but it will last indefinitely.

                                 WIZARD SPELLS

          Level 1
          SUMMON DEAD, will gate into our  SUDE, 6, Spec, lll
          universe a zombie or skeleton
          to fight for the party.
          REPEL DEAD, will do 16-80 points REDE, 4, Group, ...
          of damage to a group of undead
          creatures.
          Level 2
          LESSER SUMMONING, will gate into LESU, 8, Spec, ...
          our universe a lower power ele-
          mental or demon, who will [under
          protest] join the party.
          DEMON BANE, will do 32-128       DEBA, 8, 1 Foe, ...
          points of damage to a single
          demon.  The power to summon is
          the power to destroy.
          Level 3
          SUMMON PHANTOM, will bring a     SUPH, 10, Spec, ...
          medium level undead creature
          into the party.
          DISPOSSESS, will make any poss-  DISP, 10, Char, ...
          essed party member return to his
          normal state.
          Level 4
          PRIME SUMMONING, gates in a med- PRSU, 12, Spec, ...
          ium level elemental or demon
          to fight with the party.
          ANIMATE DEAD, gives a dead char- ANDE, 11, Char, ...
          acter undead strength, making
          him attack your enemies as
          though he was alive.
          Level 5
          BAYLORS SPELL BIND, if success-  SPBI, 14, 1 Foe, ...
          ful, possesses the mind of an
          enemy, forcing him to join your
          party & fight in its defense.
          DEMON STRIKE, works like Demon   DMST, 14, Group, ...
          Bane, but it will affect an en-
          tire group of demons.
          Level 6
          SPELL SPIRIT, will gate in a     SPSP, 15, Spec, ...
          higher-level undead creature
          to fight for the party.
          BEYOND DEATH, will restore life  BEDE, 18, Char, ...
          and 1 hit point to a character.
          Level 7
          GREATER SUMMONING, will gate a   GRSU, 22, Spec, ...
          greater demon into our universe
          and bind him to the party.

                                  BARD'S SONGS

          1.  FALKENTYNES FURY:   this tune increases the damage your
                                  party will do in combat, by driving
                                  them into a berserk rage.
          2.  THE SEEKERS BALLAD: will produce light when exploring &
                                  during combat it will increase the
                                  party's chance of hitting a foe with
                                  a weapon.
          3.  WAYLANDS WATCH:     will sooth you savage foes, making
                                  them do less damage in combat.
          4.  BADH'R KILNFEST:    an ancient Elven melody, will heal
                                  the Bard's wounds during traveling
                                  & heal the party's wounds during
                                  combat.
          5.  TRAVELLERS TUNE:    makes the members of your party more
                                  desterous and agile, thus more diff-
                                  icult to hit.
          6.  LUCKLARAN:          sets up a partial 'anti magic' field
                                  which gives party members some incr-
                                  eased protection against spell cast-
                                  ing.

                           TIPS FROM THE UNDERGROUND

          Characters
          1. Don't be concerned about losing a Level 1 character.
          Just make another one.  But when your characters reach the
          3rd level, back them up regularly using your favorite disk
          copy program.
          2. If your favorite character gets killed, there are several
          things you can do.  You can resurrect him by magic or in a
          temple by spending spell points or gold.  You can turn off
          the computer and reboot, and your entire party will be
          restored, but without the experience, gold and magic items
          they have won since the last time you saved the game.  You
          can load the character from your back-up disk onto the main
          disk.  NOTE: you can only restore a character by rebooting
          if you have previously saved your party by exiting the game
          when in the Adventurers Guild.
          3. In 'rolling' a characters attribute numbers, 17s and 18s
          can often make a big difference, as follows:  Intelligence
          give Magic Users bonus spell points; Dexterity gives
          fighters [not Bard's] bonus armor protection and first
          strike capabilty; Strength allows fighters to do an extra
          damage in combat.  Luck allows Rogues to survive even if
          they accidentally set off a trap; and Constitution gives
          all characters bonus hit points.
          4. Most character races have at least one attribute they
          are particularly high in.  Pay close attention to starting
          attributes when designing your party.
          5. Develope a Sorceror fast.  They are very useful in
          dungeons.  Wizards are extremely important in advanced
          levels; they can summon demons extremely powerful specials.
           Develope an Archmage, too.  You'll need one; you'll want
          more.
          6. Your pre-built party, excellent for beginning levels,
          may not be the best group for advanced levels.  You may
          want to experiment with a hunter, because his 'critical
          hit' capability can vanquish superior monsters, and the
          monk, who is perhaps the best fighter of all after he
          reaches the 6th level.
          7. Warriors and other fighters often play less of a role
          against higher level, magic-using monsters.  But without
          the protection of their armor and strong arms, your Magic
          Users would not survive long enough to learn the higher
          level magic spells.
          8. Beware the Doppelganger monster.  It enters your party &
          looks just like one of your members.
          Magic
          1. Don't venture too far into any dungeon without your
          maximum spell points.  A good rule is to leave a dungeon
          when you are down to one quarter of your maximum spell
          points.
          2. Manage your spell points carefully.  Don't waste a spell
          if you can accomplish the same thing without magic.
          Torches, for example, often work as well as magic light
          spells.  On the other hand, don't be shy about using magic
          in combat.  When in doubt, blast them with magic!!!
          3. Locate traps, second sight and sorceror sight spells all
          identify traps within 30'.  Trapzap spell disarms all traps
          within 30'.
          4. Cast a long-lasting Bard spell right before entering a
          tavern.  It's like getting a free spell.

                                     ITEMS

          These are the basic items found in Garth's Equipment Shoppe
          in unlimited quantity:

          Torch:              for light in dungeons
          Lamp:               longer duration than a torch
          Broadsword:         most damaging non-mag sword, usable only
                              fighters
          Short Sword:        a lighter sword, usable by all but mages
          Dagger:             usable by all, but not too effective
          War Axe:            a heavy, damaging weapon, not usable by
                              bards, rogues or magic users
          Halbard:            a combination battle axe & pike, the
                              most damaging non-magical weapon
          Mace:               most powerful weapon a rogue can use,
                              an armor crusher
          Staff:              simple, non-magical cudgel
          Buckler:            small round shield
          Tower Shield:       a larger shield
          Leather Armor:      the lightest armor, wearable by all but
                              magicians and conjurers
          Chain Mail:         light metal mesh armor, best against
                              light weapons
          Scale Armor:        better still, difficult to pierce
          Plate Armor:        strongest non-magical armor
          Robes:              will dull old knives, but thats it.
          Helm:               covers the head & saves the adventurers
                              good looks
          Leather Gloves:     some protection for the hands
          Gauntlets:          metal gloves
          Mandolin, Harp, &
          Flute:              musical instruments used by Bards

          Item Abbreviations
          FGN:  Figurine, a magical statuette which can come to life
          MTHR: Mithril, an elven metal with magical qualities.
          ADMT: Adamant, another magical metal
          DMND: Diamond, one of the hardest substances know to man or
                monster

                        Tips From the Underground: Items

          1. Generally, the more expensive the item is the better it
          works.  Almost like real life.
          2. There are no cursed or bad items, unlike real life.
          3. Don't be stingy.  Equip you fighters with the best armor,
          weapon, shield, helmet and gauntlets money can buy.  After
          all, he can't take it with him.
          4. Experiment with all items you find to determine their
          capabilities.  Magical items are key to success.  Remember
          that an item may only be magical for certain characters and
          classes, so trade items around if you have to.
          5. Make sure some of your characters carry less than 8
          items, or else the party will never be able to pick up new
          magical items in the dungeons.
          6. Whenever your party captures an especially interesting
          or powerful magic item, save the party as soon as possible.
          That way, even if disaster strikes, you will never lose
          that powerful armor, weapon, talisman or whatever.
          7. This documentation is not protected by magic shields or
          air armor.  Don't let your dog eat it!!!!!