                              Ultima III

Typed In By The Walrus. Edited By Parasite And Billy Bone.

From the depths of Hell ... 
He comes for vengeance! 

EXODUS: ULTIMA III by Lord British 

PART I: COMMANDS 
SPACE BAR - Pass 

A) Attack
B) Board
C) Cast
D) Descend
E) Enter
F) Fire
G) Get chest 
H) Hand equipment 
I) Ignite torch 
J) Join gold 
K) Klimb
L) Look
M) Modify order 
N) Negate time 
O) Other command 
P) Peer at gem 
Q) Quit and Save 
R) Ready Weapon 
S) Steal
T) Transact 
U) Unlock
V) Volume
W) Wear armour 
X) Xit
Y) Yell
Z) Ztatus
   
WEAPONS & ARMOR 

Weapons Equipment Armor 
------- --------- ----- 
Hands........A......Skin 
Dagger.......B......Cloth 
Mace.........C......Leather 
Sling........D......Chain 
Axe..........E......Plate 
Bow..........F......+2 Chain 
Sword........G......+2 Plate 
2-H Sword....H......Exotics 
+2 Axe.......I 
+2 Bow.......J 
+2 Sword.....K 
Gloves.......L 
+4 Axe.......M 
+4 Bow.......N 
+4 Sword.....O 
Exotics......P 

PART II: The Character 
Assign each character a # from 1 to 20
Name: up to 13 letters 
Sex: [M]ale, [F]emale and [O]ther 
Race: [H]uman, [E]lf, [D]warf, [B]obbit and [F]uzzy
Class: First letter of class you want 
Attributes: Divide up 50 points among the four attributes. Minimum - 5,
Maximum - 25 

Description of attributes 
------------------------- 
Strength - Important for fighting 
Dexterity - Grants speed & cleverness 
Intelligence - Controls Mage spells 
Wisdom - Imparts Clerical power 

Maximum attributes attainable for each 
-------------------------------------- 
       Str Dex Int Wis 
Human  75  75  75  75 
Elf    75  99  75  50 
Dwarf  99  75  50  75 
Bobbit 75  50  75  99 
Fuzzy  25  99  99  75 

Characteristics of profession 
----------------------------- 

Weapons Armor Spell Thiving 
------- ----- ----- ------- 
Fighter All All None No 
Cleric Mace Chain Prayers No 
Wizard Dagger Cloth Sorcery No 
Thief Sword Leather None Yes 
Paladin All Plate Prayers No 
Barbarian All Leather None Yes 
Lark All Cloth Sorcery No 
Illusnst. Mace Leather Prayers Yes 
Druid Mace Cloth Both No 
Alchemist Dagger Cloth Sorcery Yes 
Ranger +2Sword +2Plate Both Yes 

Spell Attributes/Special of classes 
----------------------------------- 
Cleric: Wisdom 
Wizard: Intelligence 
Thief: Steal/Disarm Traps 
Paladin: Half Wisdom 
Barbarian: Some Steal and Disarm 
Lark: Half Intelligence 
Illsionst: Half Wisdom, some S & D 
Druid: Greater of both halfs 
Alchemist: Half Int., some S & D 
Ranger: Lesser of Both halfs, some Steal and Disarm
Magical spell energy is based on the character's spell attribute. Energy is
replaced at the rate of 1 point per turn on the surface, and one point
every four turns in a town or dungeon 

Note: Druids (and Rangers in some versions) regain magic points at 1 MP
per Wisdom and 1 MP per Intelligence per turn (e.g. 20 Wis, 30 Int = 2 MP
until total MP is 10 and 1 MP until total MP is 15) which is faster than
normal spell casters. 

PART III: The Game 
A sample view of Sosaria appears. Hit the SPACE BAR. You are now offered
three choices: 
- Return to view 
- Organize a Party 
- Journey onward 

Only the first letter of any option need be used to select that option.
For now, select "O". These are the options that you have:
- Examine the Register 
- Create a Character 
- Form a Party 
- Disperse a Party 
- Terminate a Character 
- Main Menu 

Choose 'C' to create a character as described above. Create as many 
characters as desired, keeping in mind that your party can consist of four 
characters. 
Choose 'E' to get a brief listing of the characters in 'storage'.
Choose 'F' to form a party of four characters. When prompted type the ID 
numbers of the four characters you wish to be in your group.
Choose 'D' to disperse the already formed party. This will not affect the 
individual members of the party in any way.
Choose 'T' to terminate a character. Upon choosing this option and entering 
the appropriate ID number of the character to be consummated the 
character will be removed from the disk and lost forever. USE WITH 

CAUTION.
When you are happy with your characters and have formed a party, 
return to the main menu. Choose Journey Onward to begin your adventure 
in Sosaria. Good Luck .... 

SPECIAL NOTES 
------------- 
   
COMBAT:
When combat is joined, a special combat screen appears. Each member of
the party is shown separately, as is each monster. The characters can all
move, fight and spell individually, in order of their order in the party.
Although the players may only attack horizontally or vertically, monsters
may attack on a diagonal. You may attack from a distance with a bow,
spell or dagger. If you attack with a dagger, it is considered thrown if the
enemy is farther than one square away. Experience is given to the character
who strikes the fatal blow! 

CHESTS:
When a monster group on land is defeated, a chest will always be left
behind. Some will contain treasure, others will be empty. Many of these
chests will be trapped. Some traps include: Acid (injures the character
opening the chest), Poison (same), Bomb (destroys the contents of the
chest and hurts the entire party) and Gas Trap (affects the entire party).
Note: Monsters can't go through chests, so you can build "walls" with
chests.

DUNGEONS:
Map everything in a êdungeon. êThere êare êmany êsecret doors. Magical winds
may blow out your torches. If thou walks slowly, glimpses of faint mystic
writings may be noticed periodically. There are also many traps and pits. If
the Thief is in the front of the party, he will have an excellent
chance of spotting traps before the party trips them. If you find a
fountain, be sure to stop and drink carefully.

TRANSPORTATION: 
Most progress is on foot, although you may be able to locate or buy
horses. To sail a ship, you may not sail against the wind.

MOON GATES: 
Passing through a Moon Gate will teleport the party to hidden powers.
Many areas are only accessable through these gates. The coming and
going of the Moon Gates is somehow related to the phases of Sosaria's
twin moons, Trammel and Felucca. The phases of these moons is indicated at
the top of the screen as follows: 

0: New moon 
1: Crescent waxing 
2: First quarter 
3: Gibbous waning 
4: Full moon 
5: Gibbous waning 
6: Last quarter 
7: Crescent waning 

TOWN SHOPS: 
Weapons shop: Buy/Sell weapons 
The Armory: Buy/Sell armor 
The Grocery: Buy food 
Guild Shop: Buy thieving equipment 
The Pub: Gold may loosen a tongue... 
The Healers: Restorative healing 
The Stable: Buy horses 
The Oracle: Buy knowledge & insight 

SPECIAL MONSTERS: 
(There are three types of monster for each reference here, but as they
differ only in name, they are not listed.)
Thief: Can steal any weapon or armor that is not equipped.
Pincher: Can poison. 
Daemon: Can hurl magic attacks. 
Dragon: Can attack from three spaces away, even when not in the combat mode!
Devil: Can hurl poisoned magic bolts! 
Pirates: Can fire cannon at all members of party.
Sea Serpents: Can hurl magic across water.
Man-O-Wars: Can poison/hurl magic! 

PART IV: Magic 
A spell will cost you a certain amount of magical energy to cast, as follows:

A: 0 pts
B: 5 pts
C: 10 pts
D: 15 pts
E: 20 pts
F: 25 pts
G: 30 pts
H: 35 pts
I: 40 pts
J: 45 pts
K: 50 pts
L: 55 pts
M: 60 pts
N: 65 pts
O: 70 pts
P: 75 pts

THE BOOK OF AMBER RUNES (sorcery) 
--------------------------------- 
A) REPOND
This spell kills Orcs, Goblins or Trolls. The spell doesn't always work.
B) MITTAR This spell shoots a weak magic bolt at monster. It always hits
its target. 
C) LORUM A very short light spell. 
D) DOR ACRON This spell transports party down in dungeon.
E) SUR ACRON This spell transports party up in dungeon.
F) FULGAR This spell fires a magic bolt at a monster. It Always hits its 
target.
G) DAG ACRON This spell teleports party.
H) MENTAR This spell throws a magic bolt at monsters. It always hits its
target. The higher intelligence of the caster, the more damaging the blow.
I) DAG LORUM This spell creates light. 
J) FAL DIVI This spell will allow you to cast almost any Cleric spell.
K) NOXUM This spell will damage all your foes.
L) DECORP This spell will always kill its target. It won't kill Lord British
(I have tried it.) 
M) ALTAIR This spell will stop time. 
N) DAG MENTAR This spell will be the same as Mentar (See Amber Runes <H>),
but to all monsters. 
O) NECORP This spell will make all monsters very easy to kill (One hit).
P) INAMRES IJNA This spell will kill most monsters.

THE ANCIENT LITURGY OF TRUTH (prayer) 
------------------------------------- 
A) PONTORI This Spell kills undead (Skeletons, Zombies, etc...). It
doesn't always work. 
B) APPAR UNEM This spell disarms chests. It always works.
C) SANCTU This spell heals light wounds.
D) LUMINAE This spell creates light. 
E) REC SU This spell moves party up one level in a dungeon.
F) REC DU This spell moves party down one level in a dungeon.
G) LIB REC This spell teleports party. 
H) ALCORT This spell removes poison from one party member.
I) SEQUITU This spell takes party out of dungeon no mater what level their on.
J) SOMINAE This spell creates light. 
K) SANCTU MANI This spell heals more than Sanctu but not completely.
L) VIEDA This spell is like peering at a gem.
M) EXCUUN This spell kills one monster. 
N) SURMANDUM This spell resurrects one member.
O) ZXKUQYB This spell kills almost all monsters you face.
P) ANJI SERMANI This spell restores a member from ashes. It removes 5 wisdom
from the caster of the spell. 

HINTS & TIPS 
************ 
<DIG> to unearth Exotics. 
Exotics hide on islands. 
Beyond the whirlpool lies a mystic land.
Death Gulch is a place of many riches.
A well placed <BRIBE> will make guardians disappear.
In a deep dark forest, Dawn appears. 
Only Exotic weapons will harm those inside the Exodus castle.
A forcefield stops all but the owners of the Mark of Force.
The knowledge of Snake inversion is found at the Circle of Light in Yew.
To find the Cards <SEARCH> the shrines.
Ambrosia is the location of shrines. 
Father Time knows the purpose of the Cards.
Father Time lives at the bottom of a dungeon.
Hot rods Mark the skin. 
The Mark of the Snake is required to invoke the Silver Snake.
In the Exodus castle lies four Slots waiting for four Cards.
You can improve yourself at a Shrine if you can afford it.
There are four Shrines and four Abilities.
There are four Cards: Sol, Moon, Love, and Death.
There are four Marks: Kings, Fire, Force, and Snake.