>-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!---------
>-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-----------R
                                8 - BALL

Typed in by RICKY of BELGIUM. Edited by PARASITE.


    Eight Ball is modelled after the real pool game of eight ball.
Playing Eight Ball on your AMIGA may improve your pool game  by
letting you try shots over,  and by increasing your  understanding
of the angles and shot possibilities.

     The  game is played with 15 numbered object balls and  a  cue
ball.   The object balls fall into two groups; the solids numbered
1  through 7,  and the stripes numbered 9 through 15.   The  eight
ball is black and is not in either group.   To win the  game,  you
must  pocket all of the balls of your group,  and then sink the  8
ball.

     Groups  are  "chosen" in the beginning of the game  when  the
first ball is sunk.   If you sink a ball,  then that ball's  group
becomes your group.  If you sink one ball of both groups, then the
groups have not been chosen, and you may shoot at any ball, except
the eight ball.  Whatever ball is sunk next is that persons group,
(solids or stripes) and the game shall proceed from there.

     To hit the ball,  choose the direction by moving the mouse so
that  the dotted line goes in the direction you want the  ball  to
move  in.   The  solid  line between the cue ball  and  the  mouse
"arrow" shows the position of the cue stick.  The arrow represents
your hand.  The longer the solid line is, the harder the ball will
be hit.   To actually hit the ball,  press the mouse button.   The
right  mouse button will hit the cue ball four times  harder  than
the  left mouse button.   You will probably only want to  use  the
right  button for the break shot.   If you hit the ball too  hard,
you can knock balls off of the table.  If you sink on of the balls
of your group on a shot,  or any ball if the groups aren't chosen,
you get another shot (unless you also scratch on that shot).

     If you accidentally pocket the eight ball before all of  your
balls are pocketed,  you lose.   You will also lose if you scratch
while shooting at the eight ball.

     After  the title screen appears and the opening music  plays,
the dialogue box appears and asks you which options you would like
to consider a scratch.  Four other scratch possibilities exist and
are  outlined  on the screen.   To choose one (or  all)  of  these
options  simply use the mouse pointer to select the  boxes  beside
the options you want.   To play "real" tournament 8  ball,  select
all of the options.   When a scratch occurs, a ball from the group
you  are shooting at will be taken from the rack of balls  already
made and will be spotted back on the table.

     Three  keys  provide special functions  while  playing  eight
ball:

          UNDO   will  put  the balls  back  into  their  original
                 positions,  if you would like to try a shot  over
                 (but not  after scratching because that would  be
                 cheating).

          HELP   will provide a brief help message.

          ESC    will  stop the  current game and  return  to  the
                 setup screen.
