                CRAFTON AND XUNK (Also called GET DEXTER)

Typed in by MOTLEY ORC. Edited by PARASITE.


     First of all, the whole purpose of the game is to destroy all
the doctors with the syringes.  These are found in various parts
of the world.

     The best way to play the game is to have two people.  One
should use the joystick ( much better than the mouse ), and the
other should pick up and drop the various objects that you use.
Your strength at its apex will be 99%.  Throughout the world there
are booths that look like video games that will replenish your
health.

OBJECTS

PASSES: looks like a square with three colored stripes on it.  The
outer stripes correspond to the color of the door they will open.

TACK: looks like an upside-down green tack.  It will kill three
types of monsters. 1) The blue bouncing stools. 2) The blue sphere
with a handle. 3) The blue disc with a green light on top.

CARTRIDGE: looks like a brown canister with a pin on top like a
grenade.  It will kill the blue dog(box with legs) and the blue
ducks.

BOTTLE OF POISON: looks like a blue bottle of poison( has an X on
it ).  It will kill the blue cat, and a large moving canister that
looks like a renegade vacuum cleaner with a flashing red triangle
on top.

SYRINGE: looks like a blue syringe.  Use it to stab the doctors.
This will cause the doctor to go into a hyper frenzy, and then go
mellow.  When he is done, one number of the code will be
displayed.  Write these down as you go along.

BOTTLE OF WINE: looks like a corked bottle of green wine.  When
the title screen of the game first appears as the game is loading,
you will see a picture of a guy with a green mohawk.  If you can
lure him into running into the bottle face first, he will stay
frozen to the bottle.  He must be alchoholic or something.

VASE OF FLOWERS: looks like a blue vase with red roses in it.
There is a blonde curly headed woman that is found in various
rooms of the world.  Use the flowers against her in the same way
that you use the bottle of wine against the man as explained
above.

BUBBLE LAMP: Don't know what this is for!

MAGNET: Looks like a magnet.  If you drop this in the middle of a
room full of monsters, those that touch it will be permanantly
frozen to it.

FLYING SAUCER: Looks like a kids toy flying saucer.  While you
are holding it, move to a room that has plenty of monsters in it and
that it is hard to pass.  When you drop it, it will rise to the
top of the screen and make a constant ringing noise.  All of the
monsters will be frozen for around 10-15 seconds.  Use these only
in emergencies as once you use them they are gone for good.

VARIOUS FURNITURE: All of the furniture that you find in the
world can be moved and stacked to gain access to other places and
other things.


     In order to kill most of the monsters in the world you must
take the needed object, drop it on the floor ( not on the monster
) and lure it into it.  When the monster is killed, he will not
return for the remainder of the game, until, of course, you die
and the game is restarted.

     Every time you kill a professor, one number of a code will be
displayed at the bottom center of the screen.  Write these down as
you play the game because every time you play it, the code numbers
change.

Whenever you enter a room with a professor in it, he will make a
bee-line to an alarm and sound it off.  I haven't figured out what
can stop him but when he sounds the alarm, many monsters enter the
room for his protection.  Be prepared and jump up on a piece of
furniture as you will be safe.

     As you will soon find out, when you touch the monsters your
strength will go down.  Some monsters take you down faster than
others.  Don't let yourself get below 40%.  If you do, go directly
to one of the arcade game looking booths and revitalize yourself.
Just walk into it and you will start to vibrate and hear a high
pitched ringing as your health increases back up to 99%.

     The health machines are few and far between.  When you find
one, remember where it is.  There is one in particular that has no
monsters in with it.  I like to use it as an arsenal and store all
of my extra objects in with it.  Then you can get the object that
you need and recharge yourself at the same time.

     A good strategy is to kill all of the monsters first and then
proceed to stab the professors.

     In some rooms there are colored tiles on the floor.  One tile
will open the door or put the elevators in motion, and the other
two will only take away your health.  These change every time you
leave and re-enter the room.  Remember, once the doors are opened,
they will only remain opended for several seconds.  Don't open the
door, go inside, and stay because you will get trapped.  Your only
chance of escape is to let the professor sound the alarm and when
the monsters come in to save him, run out the open door.
Otherwise you are stuck.

     Watch the demo when the program loads in.  It gives you
helpful hints.

     When you hit the HELP key, you go into a sub-screen.  Here
you can alter what the key board does.  For instance:  Click on
DROP with the mouse, then choose the keys you wish to use for
droping items and click on it.  I like to use CapsLock for
dropping and the space bar for picking up.

     You can move furniture in one of three ways:  1. Pushing it.
2. Pulling it.  3. Letting a monster move it.  In order to pull
the object you must be touching the object face first and then
push the corresponding "Pull" keys on the keyboard.  You define
these in the HELP subscreen.
