>-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!----R
>-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!----R
                    KICK OFF 2 WORLD CUP DATA

Typed in by TEDDYSTACKER. Edited by PARASITE.


        WARNING!! DO NOT SAVE ANYTHING TO THE PROGRAM DISK!!

1.0 INTRODUCTION
KICK OFF 2 retains the pace and accuracy of the universally
acclaimed KICK OFF.A soccer simulation with a full size multi
directional scrolling pitch and the players,markings,goals etc,in
correct proportions.Both teams play the game strictly according
to tactics.Players move into position to receive passes and gain
possession.The ball,as in real game ,travels ahead of the player
thus making a tackle a matter of skill rather than of choice.

KICK OFF 2 like real soccer,requires skills in ball control for
passing,dribbling,shooting etc.Accuracy in shooting, the ability
to swerve or bend the ball to score, when taking free kicks need
a lot of practice.The practice option all you to practice the ball
skills and set pieces,without being harassed (frank spencer) by
the opposition.Take your time and practice the skills to
perfection.If two players are to team up,it is an ideal
opportunity to practice ONE - TWO up and down the pitch.

Each player on the pitch has a unique combination of attributes
and skills suitable for the skill level at which the game is
being played.A International is superior to 4th div. player in
all departments.

A host of playing options are provided.One of the most useful
options is the provision to set the skill levels of both teams
independently.A novice with INT. Squad can give a professional
with 4th Division Squad a run for his money.

There is a league and a cup tournament with sudden death penalty
shoot outs, in case of a draw.The teams in the league are on the
whole evenly matched but with different styles of play and the
player skills to match,that style.There is a option to load your
own team from "Player Manager" along with your own tactics , to
play against another "Player Manager" team in a single game or
enter league and cup tournament.

The special events selection in the main menu,allows data disks
to be loaded.

Kick Off 2 also provides the facility to change strip colours ,on
expanded ST's ( 1 MB or above ) there are additional sound
effects.

The "Action Reply" facility allows you to see the goals at normal
pace or in "Slow Motion" and compile your own "Golden Goals"
disk.

There are 24 referees and have their own distinctive
temperaments.You will soon know which referee turns a "blind eye"
and which one has a pack of red cards,to distribute.On the other
hand,like human beings,they have good days and bad days.You never
know,you may catch Sean Willis on a good day but Gary Penn -
unlikely!!

2.0 MAIN MENU
There are 9 main menu options.

2.1 SINGLE GAME - A single game can be between a player and the
computer or between two players.Two players can team up against
the computer or against two other players.A host of options are
available to alter the match conditions and various permutations
of the options to provide an enormous variety of gameplay.

2.2 THE LEAGUE - There is a League of 8 teams lasting 14
weeks.The league championship requires consistent excellence.8
players can play in the league which can be saved to disk ,and
continued later.

2.3 THE CUP - The cup tournament is played on a knock out
basis.If there is no result,extra time is played.If there is
still no result,a penalty shoot out decides the winner.

2.4 INTERNATIONAL FRIENDLY - This option allows you to play a
single match using International sides with their distinct styles
of play.

2.5 PRACTICE - Practice mode allows one or two players to
practice ball skills and learn ball controls without being
harassed ( Frank Spencer ) by the opposition.

2.6 OPTIONS - The OPTION menu sets the conditions for a SINGLE
GAME or INT. FRIENDLY.The options must be selected before playing
the game

2.7 SPECIAL EVENTS - This option is used for loading data disks
to be published at a later date.

2.8 ACTION REPLAY - This option is used to edit a file of action
replay of goals to create a "Golden Goals" disc etc.

2.9 KIT DESIGN - This option enables design of custom kit for a
single game only.

3.0 THE OPTIONS
The options in this menu,once set,remain unchanged until
changed.The DEFAULT condition is printed in BOLD.

3.1 DURATION : 2 X 3 , 2 X 5 , 2 X 10 and 2 x 2.
The league and cup matches 2 x 5 min.

3.2 PITCH : A choice of 4 playing surfaces,
Normal - Normal bounce and travel.
Soggy - Ball bounce and travel reduced.Players stamina reduced.
Wet - Increased ball travel and speed.
Artificial - High ball bounce.Increased ball speed and
travel.Reduced players stamina.

3.3 WIND : A choice of 4 - Off,light,medium and strong.

3.4 REPLACE TACTICS : Each team can use a total of 4 tactics in a
game.These tactics can be replaced by 4 other tactics on the game
disc or the data disc containing tactics designed by the "Player
Manager".See (14.0) for more information.

3.5 EXTRA TIME AND PENALTIES : Yes or NO - If the answer is
yes,extra time proportional to the full time match duration is
played, if the result is a draw after full time.The extra time is
in two halves and the teams change ends at the half time.If the
result is still a draw then a sudden death penalty shoot out
decides the result.
The option is set to NO in the league matches and YES for cup
tournament.

3.6 SKILL LEVEL : Choice of 5 skill levels - International , 1st
,2nd ,3rd and 4th divisions.The attributes and skills of the
players correspond to the division.In a single match,identical
squads are presented for both teams,thus ensuring that the result
depends on the skill of the players only.The skill level of both
teams can be set independently.This facility allows even a novice
with a International squad to give an experienced player with 4th
division squad a run for his money.
There is another special level namely PLAYER MANAGER.This option
allows a Player Manager team to be loaded along with the current
tactics,to play against another player or computer at any of the
5 skill levels or play against another Player Manager team.See
5.0 for instructions.

3.7 LEAGUE OPTIONS - The skill level at which the league is
played can be selected.Choice of 3rd division , 1st division or
international level.

3.8 GAME SPEED : The speed of the game can be changed.At reduced
speed,it is possible to play a very tactical game and see how
your tactics actually work and the response of your
opponents.There are 3 options : NORMAL,MEDIUM and SLOW.

3.9 AFTER TOUCH : YES or NO - If the answer is yes ,the ball
direction can be altered for a short duration after
shooting.Ideal for bending the ball etc.

3.10 SELECT REFEREE : YES or NO - You may select any of the 24
referees.The referees play a very important part in the game.

4.10 THE PLAYERS
Each player on the pitch has a unique mixture of attributes and
skills.
The attributes are
PACE - STAMINA - AGGRESSION - RESILIENCE
The skills are
PASSING - SHOOTING - TACKLING
THE unique mixture determines the performance of the player.For
instance,a player of great pace but with poor stamina will not
perform well , as the match nears the end and should be
substituted if there is extra time in a cup match.Similarly a
player with high aggression  will go for a ball and if he has a
good tackling skills will succeed in getting the possession but
with low tackling skill is likely to foul the opposition and may
even collect a red card if seen by the referee.

5.0
SELECTING SKILL LEVEL
There are 5 skill levels plus a special level;

INTERNATIONAL
1st DIVISION
2nd DIVISION
3rd DIVISION
4th DIVISION
PLAYER MANAGER

To set the skill level,select OPTIONS in the main menu and then
select SKILL LEVEL in the option menu.
One player or Two players against the computer - TEAM A
Two players against each other: player 1 - TEAM A: player 2 - TEAM B

The skill level of each team can be set independently thus enabling a
novice to play on equal terms with an expert.A novice using a squad of
international players with their great pace and shooting accuracy can
give a tough game to an expert with 4th division squad.

The Player Manager level allows you to load a team trained in Player
Manager to play against another Player Manager team or a computer team
of chosen skill level.

When Player Manager level is selected,you will be asked to insert your
P.M. data disk in the drive.The whole squad along with current tactics
will be loaded.The current tactics can however be replaced with new
tactics.

6.0 SELECTING NUMBER OF PLAYERS
1 to 4 players can play using a joystick adaptor.

TEAM SELECTION screen (see 8.0) provides the opportunity to select
number of players and hoe they are to play, i.e. against the
computer,against each other etc...

7.0 GAME OPTIONS
All the four options are selected  via the Main menu.

CAUTION: Before selecting the GAME OPTIONS,select the required
conditions from the OPTION menu (SEE 3.0).

7.1 SINGLE GAME
Two players can play against the computer or against each other.One
player game is against the computer.Also two players can play against
two other players.
On selecting  this menu option,you will be asked the number of
players:1,2,3 or 4.

SELECT TEAM screens give you the opportunity to select both teams.The
winner of the toss decides whether to play UP or DOWN pitch.The name
of the referee is also displayed.

7.11 TACTICS
Select the tactics for the start of the match using the keyboard.The
tactics can be changed any time during the match when the ball is out
of play.

Keys 1,2,3 & 4 are assigned to Team A and 1,2,3 & 4 on the NUMERIC
KEYPAD are assigned to the Team B.Press the key and the players will
move to the new tactical positions,once the ball comes into play
again.

7.12 SUBSTITUTIONS
Two substitutions are allowed in a match.Please see 19.0 for more
information.

7.2 INTERNATIONAL FRIENDLY
This option allows you to play a single game between ant two chosen
international teams.On selecting this option ,a list of all the
countries is presented.Highlight TEAM A and the first country.Press
the F.B. to confirm the choice.Repeat the process for TEAM B.

7.3 THE LEAGUE
The League consists of 8 teams and lasts 14 weeks.There are 3 skill
levels,Third,First and international at which the league can be
played.Use the OPTIONS menu to set the skill level.The default skill
level is the 1st division.When the league option is selected in the
Main menu,the league table with the appropriate numbers of teams is
displayed.The following options are available:

7.31 CHANGE TEAM NAMES - Move joystick up to highlight a team
name.Press F.B. and the cursor will flash at the end of the team
name.Use keyboard to edit the name.Move the J/S to highlight another
team if required.

7.32 SELECTING TEAM TO PLAY - When the table first appears,the letter
C appears against all the teams to say that all the teams are
Computer controlled.To change the team to J/S i.e. play that team in
the league.Move J/S to highlight the team and press F1

7.33 LOADING PLAYER MANAGER TEAMS.
Player Manager teams together with their current tactics can be loaded
in the league.To load a team,move joystick to highlight the team you
wish to replace with the P.M. team and press F3.Insert your Player
Manager Data Disk in the drive and press F.B. Repeat the process to
load other teams.

7.34 LOADING PLAYER MANAGER DESIGNED TACTICS :
The tactics designed in Player Manager can be loaded for each team in
the league.Move the J/S to highlight the team for which you wish to
load new tactics and press F5.Insert P.M. data disk and press the
F.B.The teams current tactics directory and the directory of all the
available tactics will be displayed.Highlight the tactics you wish to
replace in the current directory and press the F.B. Move the J/S to
highlight the required tactics in the data disk directory and then
press F.B. Repeat the process if you wish to replace other tactics.
Select DONE when finished.

Repeat the process for other teams.

7.35 LOAD
This option allows you to load a previously saved league and continue
the game.When the option is exercised,none of the options above can be
used.Insert your data disk with previously saved league in the drive
and press F.B. Select the league you wish to play and press the F.B.

7.36 ( I have not missed this - it applies to 8 bit machines only !!)

7.37 CONTINUE:
Select this option to play the league game.The two teams to play the
next match will be highlighted.If both teams had J for control,the
computer will allocate J1 and J2 to the teams.

The options at the bottom of the screen will now display SAVE,PLAY -
MATCH and QUIT.

7.38 SAVE:
Select this option to save your current league.A good quality
FORMATTED disk is required to save the league.
Insert the disk in the drive and press the F.B.Type the name,under
which,you wish to save the league or use the displayed file name,by
highlighting it.

7.39 QUIT:
The league is abandoned without saving and the program returns to the
MAIN menu.

7.40 PLAY MATCH:
The squad selection screens, for each team are displayed next.The game
now follows the procedure as detailed for SINGLE GAME.
The league table is updated after each match.
CAUTION - It is upto players to ensure that there is no duplication of
team names.Name duplication may cause the program to crash.You are
advised to save the league at regular intervals.

7.41 THE CUP:
The Cup tournament is for 8 teams and is on a knock out basis.In case
of a draw,there is extra time.If there is still no result,sudden
death penalty shoot out feature is used to decide the result. (see
15.0 for rules)

8.0 TEAM SELECTION

8.1 PLAY OPTIONS
PLAYING AS A TEAM - The player controls the player nearest to the
ball.
PLAYING IN POSITION - The player assumes the identity i.e. the skills
and attributes of one player on the pitch and controls this player
right through the match.If the selected player is injured,the player
assumes the identity of the substitute.

YOU CAN NOT PLAY AS A KEEPER.
1 to 4 players using a special joystick adaptor.

TEAM MODE - Two players can team up to play against the computer or
other two players.Both players can only play in position.
3 Players - Third player (J/S 3) plays in TEAM MODE with player 1.
4 Players - Fourth player(J/S 4) plays in TEAM MODE with player 2.

1 Player only - Player 1 controls Team A using J/S 1.He has a choice
of either playing as a team or playing in position.

2 Players - Two players can play in TEAM MODE against the computer or
against each other.In the latter case they may play in position or as
a team.

A squad of 16 players with skills and attributes pertaining to the
selected skill level are displayed for team A first.The names of the
players and their field positions are shown.

The computer has already selected the shirt numbers of the players and
the substitutes 12 and 14 .These are not necessarily the best
selections.If you wish to change the selection,move J/S up or down to
highlight a player name and left or right to highlight the shirt
number.

8.2 ONE PLAYER

TEAM A
8.21  PLAY AS TEAM: Select J.S.1 icon and press F.B. Select DONE and
press F.B.

8.22 PLAY IN POSITION: Select J.S.1 icon and press F.B. Move J/S to
highlight the player whose identity you wish to assume and press F.B.
Select DONE.

8.23 CANCEL PLAY IN POSITION  OR CHANGE THE PLAYER:
Highlight the player selected and press F.B.

8.3 TWO PLAYERS

AGAINST EACH OTHER

TEAM A : Player 1 select J.S.1 and press F.B.
PLAY IN POSITION - As in 8.22
PLAY AS A TEAM - Select Done and press F.B.

TEAM B: Player 2 SELECT J.S.2 and press F.B. then as Team A
TEAM MODE
TEAM A - Players 1 & 2 select J.S.1 & J.S.2 respectively and the
players identities.Select DONE

8.4 THREE PLAYERS

TEAM A: Player 1 select J.S.1 AND PLAYER 3 SELECT J.S.3 Follow the
procedure for TEAM MODE.

TEAM B: Player 2 select J.S.2. Select DONE to play as team or a player
and DONE to play in position.

8.5 FOUR PLAYERS

TEAM A: As for 3 players.
TEAM B: Player 2 select J.S.2. and player 4 select J.S.4. Follow the
procedure for TEAM MODE.

8.6 SELECTING START TACTICS:
The names of the 4 tactics in current use are displayed.Use the
keyboard as detailed in 7.11 to select the tactics at Kick Off.

9.0 PLAYER CONTROL

9.1 MOVEMENT - The player moves in all 8 joystick directions.

9.2 HEADERS  - If the ball is in the air,pressing F.B. will make the
controlled player jump.Move the J/S in the direction  in which you
wish to head the ball,when the player is in the air.

9.3 BLOCKING TACKLE - The purpose of this tackle is to gain possession
of the ball from the opponent.The tackle must be from the front or
overtaking the opponent and getting possession of the ball as it
travels in front of the player.Tackling the player from behind is a
FOUL.

9.4 SLIDING TACKLE - This tackle can be done from any direction.
A sliding tackle on an opponent without the ball is a FOUL.If the ball
is on the ground,press F.B. TO DO A SLIDING TACKLE.You must touch the
ball before touching the opponent to avoid being penalised.A sliding
tackle from behind is a FOUL.

9.5 SCISSOR KICK - Reverse the direction of the joystick when the ball
is in the air,for a scissor kick.

10.0 BALL CONTROL
Kick Off 2 controls have been specially designed for ease of use.In a
fast moving game and under pressure,there is no time top remember
complicated joystick movements,the action has to be instinctive.The
controls are simple and can be learnt and practiced to perfection in
PRACTICE in the main menu.The ball control becomes even more deadly if
AFTER TOUCH is used.

10.1 DRIBBLE BALL: The ball travels in front of the player.The
distance it travels depends on the speed of the player at the time of
contact.

10.2 SHOOT BALL : Press F.B. AFTER touching the ball,will shoot the
ball in the direction the player is facing.

10.3 STOP BALL : Press F.B. BEFORE touching the ball will stop the
ball and give the player total control.

10.4 PASS BALL: You must STOP the ball before you can pass.Keep the
F.B. pressed and move the J/S in the direction you wish to pass and
release the F.B. Releasing the F.B. when the J/S is centred will take
you back into DRIBBLE action.The player will turn in the joystick
direction and start dribbling the ball in that direction.He will shoot
if the F.B. is pressed.

10.5 CHIP BALL: If the ball is on the ground,reversing the direction
of the J/S will chip the ball.

10.6 AFTER TOUCH:This option can be activated in the OPTION menu.It
allows the player to alter the direction of the ball by a small amount
after shooting the ball.The direction must be changed immediately after
shooting the ball,as the control is only effective for a very short
time.After touch can be used to devastating effect with practice.Move
the joystick in the direction you wish the ball to go (foward
positions of the joystick only) immediately after shooting the ball.

11.0 KEEPER CONTROL
The keeper is computer controlled except in the following cases,

11.1 DEFENDING A PENALTY: The control is transferred to the main
player.The keeper stands in the centre and starts to move as soon as
the F.B. is pressed.The longer the F.B. is kept pressed,the bigger the
movement.

A - Jump up                         JOYSRICK POSITIONS
B - Dive top left corner
C - Dive top right corner                       A
D - Dive left mid bar height              B           C
E - Catch ball                      D           E           F
F - Dive right mid bar height             G           H
G - Dive left ground                            J
H - Dive right ground
J - Stoop

11.2 TAKING GOAL KICKS: The keeper automatically takes the goal kick
unless the player wishes to do so.If the player does not exercise this
option quickly,the computer will take control.Move the joystick in the
required position before the keeper kicks or throws the ball .Press
the F.B. to quickly boot the ball up field to catch the opposition out
of position or to stop the keeper wasting time.

A - Hard ahead        B - Hard left       C - Hard left
D - Medium left       E - Medium ahead    F - Medium right
G - Soft left         H - Soft right      J - Soft ahead

11.3 CONTROLS

JOYSTICK ONLY
Players 3 & 4 require a special joystick adaptor.

11.4 QUIT MATCH OR PRACTICE
You can quit a single game or INT. Friendly or practice mode.A league
game or cup match cannot be terminated.

Hit the ESC Key for the above.

12.0 SET PIECES

12.1 CORNER KICKS
12.11 SELECTING TYPE OF CORNER KICK
There is a choice of 9 corner kicks.A selection panel appears showing
the goal post and corner flag.The selection panel is actually the face
of the ball that the player will kick.

Kicking the ball at the bottom  lifts the ball to top bar height.
Kicking the ball in the middle takes the ball at mid goal post height.
Kicking the ball at top of the ball keeps the ball low at ankle height.

Kicking the ball away from the goal curls the ball towards the goal.
Kicking the ball straight keeps the ball straight.
Kicking the ball towards the goal curls the ball away from the goal.

Once the ball has been kicked , normal ball controls apply.
Look at the scanner to see the positions of your players and select
the suitable corner kick ,then press the F.B.

12.12 STRENGTH OF CORNER KICKS
The duration for which the F.B. is kept pressed to select the type of
corner kick,determines the strength of the kick.A short tap will do a
short kick i.e. pass to a player near the corner flag.A hard kick will
take the ball to the player across or out of play.

12.2 PENALTIES
The angle and the height of the shot are controlled,enabling the
penalty taker to put the ball anywhere in the net.

The pointer on a bar moves rapidly from left to right indicating the
horizontal direction of the ball if hit at that point.Press F.B. to
start the run.The longer the F.B. is pressed,the higher the ball will
rise.It is therefore possible to hit the top corners of the net or keep
the ball on the ground or overshoot the ball.A short tap will keep the
ball on the ground.
During the penalties,the keeper control is passed to the main
player.See KEEPER CONTROL instructions.

12.3 FREE KICKS
Set piece Free Kick is played if there is a foul by a defending player
within a narrow sector in front of the defended goal mouth.

12.31 TAKING FREE KICK
The ball is placed where the foul occurred.A few yards away on each
side of the ball stands a player from the team taking the Free Kick.If
two players are in team mode,the main player takes the Free Kick and
the other controlled player stands on the side nearest to the goal.
Press F.B. to start the run.The duration for which the F.B. is kept
pressed determines the height of the ball.The longer the button is
kept pressed,the higher the ball will rise.The strength of the kick is
randomly computer controlled.

There are two distinct joystick controls:BEFORE touching the ball and
AFTER touching the ball.

      BEFORE                AFTER              JOYSTICK POSITION

A  Jump Over The Ball     Dip The Ball                   A
B  Slight Left Bias       Dip and Swerve Ball       B         C
C  Slight Right Bias      Dip and Swerve Ball   D        E        F
D  More Left Bias         Swerve Ball               G         H
E  Straight Kick          No Action                      J
F  More Right Bias        Swerve Ball
G  Pass Ball To Left Player
H  Pass Ball To Right Player

Only the player taking the Free Kick has Swerve control of the
ball. With practice ,he can dip the ball into the opposition net or
bend the ball round the opposition wall.The controls give infinite
control on the kick,and with practice,a match winner.If the ball is
passed to another,normal ball controls are resumed.
If the main player jumps over the ball,in the absence of a controlled
player,one of the players next to the ball will take the kick.

12.32 DEFENDING FREE KICK
A wall of players,if formed 10 yds (approx) from the ball in direct
path of the ball.

12.4 THROW IN
The computer automatically throws the ball to the nearest player in
position to receive the ball.The control can be however be assumed by
the player.There is a option to do a directed SHORT or LONG throw.Move
the joystick in the five forward positions and press the F.B. for a
short throw.If the F.B. is not pressed soon,the computer will
automatically take a throw.The three backward positions are used for
the LONG throws.

13.0 SUBSTITUTIONS
You are allowed to make 2 substitutions during the match.You can not
substitute a player who has been given a RED card by the referee.Only
ONE substitution at a time can be made.GOAL KEEPERS CANNOT BE
SUBSTITUTED.

13.1 SELECTING A SUBSTITUTE.

PL. 12 TEAM A = F4
PL. 14 TEAM A = F5
PL. 12 TEAM B = F9
PL. 14 TEAM B = F10

13.2 MAKING A SUBSTITUTION
When the ball goes out of play,you will be asked to make a
substitution.
The name of one of the players will appear on the screen.Use up and
down cursor keys to scan through the players on the field.When the
name of the player you wish to substitute appears,press the SPACE BAR.

14.0 TACTICS
Tactics employed by each side greatly influences the game play and
results.The players move into their tactical positions and provided
the tactics have been properly designed,the players are in position to
receive passes,attack and defend.Kick Off 2 comes with 8 ready made
tactics.You also have the option to load tactics designed in the
PLAYER MANAGER game.These can be loaded into Kick Off 2 single games
as well as league games.The team is however allowed to use only 4
tactics during the match.Selecting the right tactics is therefore quite
important.

14.1 CHANGING TACTICS

14.11 SINGLE GAME - There are 8 tactics included in Kick Off 2 of
which 4 are pre selected.A team is allowed to take 4 tactics to a
match.Use SELECT TACTICS in the OPTION MENU to replace any or all four
tactics from KICK OFF 2 or PLAYER MANAGER data disk. Select Team A or
Team B and the current list of tactics in use will be shown.Insert the
Player Manager data disk or leave the program disk in the drive.Press
F.B. to display the tactics library on the disk.Select the tactics you
wish to replace hit the F.B. Move the joystick to highlight the new
tactics and press the F.B. to load the new tactics.Select DONE

14.12 LEAGUE GAME
Each team in the league is allowed 4 tactics.The tactics of each team
can be replaced by the library of tactics on the program disc or the
Player Manager data disc.Follow the procedure as detailed in 7.34

14.2 CHANGING TACTICS DURING THE GAME
You can select the starting tactics to be employed by your team.The
tactics can be changed any time during the match as soon as the ball
goes out of play. - See 7.11 for instructions.

15.0 SUDDEN DEATH PENALTY SHOOT OUT
If after extra time,there is still no result,a penalty shoot out
takes place.Each side takes five penalties in turn.The winner is the
team which scored the most goals.If the number of goals is equal,each
side takes a penalty alternately.After both sides have taken their
turn,there is a goal difference,the team with the most goals is
declared the winner.The shoot out continues until there is a goal
difference.

16.0 GENERAL
The referees in the game have their own characteristics and competence
level.Some are more prone than others, in disciplinary action.They can
give yellow and red cards.

The players with lower stamina are prone to get tired and lose pace as
well as accuracy.The players are also inclined to time wasting if the
winning margin is small.

KEYBOARD COMMANDS:

PAUSE = P
CHANGE SCANNER SIZE = X

17.0 KIT DESIGN
The kit colours can be changed as follows:

The team kit can be changed for a single or Int. friendly match.Each
team has two colours allocated.The combination allows plain or striped
shirts.A choice of 16 colours is available.
Select the colour box and press F.B. to cycle through the colours.When
all 4 colours have been selected,move the joystick to select style and
press the F.B. Though all 6 styles are shown,the graphics for the last
4 styles are not available.

SHIRT - Main colour + Second colour or Main Colour only
SHORTS - Second colour only

18.0 PRACTICE
There is option to Practice SKILLS,PENALTIES.Press ESC to return to
the MAIN MENU.

18.1 PRACTICE SKILLS: The option gives the player the chance to learn
joystick movements and improve his passing and shooting skills.The
skills can be practiced at all skill levels with ONE or TWO players
option.The skills are learnt without being harassed (Frank Spencer) by
the opposition.In ONE player option,you control the player nearest the
ball.
In TWO players option,joystick 1 controls player 9 and joystick 2
controls player 10.This option allows you to practice One-TWO up and
down the pitch.The joystick controls of KICK OFF 2 are unique  and
specially designed for instinctive play.See controls and learn to
dribble,pass,shoot,chip and head the ball.Utilise GAME SPEED option to
perfect techniques.Press ESC / SPACE to quit.

18.2 PRACTICE PENALTIES: You can practice taking and defending
penalties either against a computer or another player.Each player
takes and defends 5 penalties.This practice is essential for success
if there is a pentalty shoot out at the end of a CUP match.See
PENALTIES section for full description of how to take a penalty and
KEEPER CONTROLS for defending penalties.Press ESC / SPACE to quit.

19.0 ACTION REPLY
Action Reply shows the goal scored so that a player can enjoy the
glorious moments again.These glorious moments can be saved on a Data
Disk and savoured at a later stage.It is also possible to compile a
GOLDEN SHOTS disc recording exceptional goals.

      THE ABOVE OPTION IS ONLY AVAILABLE FOR SINGLE GAMES

19.1 : Select ACTION REPLAY in the Main Menu.Select STORE option.You
will be asked the following questions:

FILE NAME: 8 characters max. (Default:Replay)
MATCH DATE: dd/mm/yy (Default:02/05/90)
TEAM A: 8 Characters max. (Default: Anco 1)
TEAM B: 8 Characters max. (Default: Computer)
PLAYER 1 NAME: 8 Characters max. (Default: Anco)
PLAYER 2 NAME: 8 Characters max. (Default: Computer)

The action Replays will be stored under this file name and will
contain the above information and the identity of the team scoring the
goal.

19.2: The action replay is NOT automatic.To see the replay,press key R
for Normal or S for slow motion before the next kick off.If you wish
to save the replays on a disc,insert a BLANK FORMATTED data disc in
the drive.This disc must only be used for saving Action Replays.

19.3 SAVING REPLAY ON A DATA DISK:
Press F1 during the replay,to save the replay on the disc.

19.4 EDITING THE REPLAY:
This option allows the editing of the goals to create a GOLDEN GOALS
disc.A new FORMATTED disc is required.

This option is a stand alone program requiring extensive use of
memory.Once this option is used,the computer must be switched off and
reloaded to play a game.

9.41 Select EDIT option in the Action Replay in the Main Menu.Insert
the data disc in the drive and select LOAD option.The directory of the
disc will be displayed.Select the goal you wish to see and press the
fire button.Press the Space Bar to store the goal in memory.Only a few
goals can be stored in the memory at a time.Insert Golden Goals disc
in the drive and select the SAVE option.
Select CLEAR to clear the memory and thus load more Action
Replays.Repeat the process for the rest of the goals on the match
disc.The Golden Goals disc can be futher edited to produce another
GOLDEN GOALS disc.


                KICK OFF 2 - WORLD CUP `90 DATA

LOADING: Select SPECIAL EVENTS option on the MAIN MENU and select
WORLD CUP option on the sub menu.

CONTROLS: As in Kick Off 2.

SAVE: A blank formatted disc is required.DO NOT USE THE PROGRAM DISK!.

INTRODUCTION: There are 24 teams competing in the World Cup Finals.
The teams are organised in 6 groups of 4 teams each.The first part of
the Finals is played on a league basis.Each team in the group plays
against the other three teams and a win is awarded 2 points and a draw
1 point.Goals FOR and goals AGAINST are also recorded.When all groups
have completed the league,the winner and the runner up from each group
goes through to the next round of the tournament together with the
best four losers.The 16 teams left in the finals now play on a knock
out basis to the Quarter Finals,Semi Finals and the Final.

INSTRUCTIONS: The 24 teams of the world cup , with their current
grouping A, B, C. D, E and F are displayed.Each group has four
countries.You can change the grouping of any team or all the teams if
you wish to do so,provided there are FOUR teams in each group,when you
finish organising the group.
At the bottom of the table there are 4 captions:
CONTINUE - Takes you to the next table or game.
LOAD - Allows you to load a previously saved World Cup game.
SAVE - Saves the current World Cup game on a disc.
QUIT - Returns you to the main menu.

Move the joystick to highlight the group code and press the fire
button.The group letter will cycle through the letters A to F for each
press of the fire button.Move the joystick to change as many groupings
as you wish to.Each group must have four countries.When satisfied,move
the joystick to captions and select CONTINUE to proceed.
The first round of the WORLD CUP is played on a LEAGUE basis.League
tables for each group will be displayed.The league will show letter C
in the control coloum.This signifies that in the match the team is
computer controlled.To change the team to PLAYER control,highlight C.
Press the fire button and C will change to J/S.The control toggles
between C and J/S. If two players are playing,more than one team can
be set for J/S control.When the league is played,the computer will
show J/S 1 or J/S 2 for the control.

When all the groups have been played,the original table will
display the teams which have made the last sixteen.The numbers 1 to 8
will appear against the qualifying teams.The teams with the same
number will play against each other.The teams which did not qualify
will have a blank.You can modify the numbers including the blank by
highlighting the panel and pressing the fire button.
This table will appear for the Quarter,semi and finals.At each stage
you can alter the qualifying teams.
