>-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!----R
>-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-------!-----------R
                               SKIDZ

Typed in by MR.TERRY of TRIPPLE H. Edited by PARASITE.


AIM OF THE GAME
Your local town is the scruffiest for miles around, and it's about time
that it was cleared up.Armed with nothing more than your trusty bike
and skateboard, you set about collecting as much of the rubbish as
possible as fast as possible.Unfortunately, the townfolk don't share
your enthusiasm, and although they won't try to stop you, they do tend
to get in the way.Then there's the holes in the road, the kerbs, the
cones, the ramps....loads of obstacles stand between you and your goal,
 and they're not doing you or your equipment any good. There's money
lying around just waiting to be collected though, and performing
stunts will also improve your bank balance.Collect enough, and it'll
give you the chance to visit the shop and upgrade your bike or
skateboard, or carry out essential repairs.

You have just one life, and the game will end when you run out of
energy.You will then be given the option to start a fresh game on the
level you ended the game on with the same amount of money and energy
as you began that level.

There are six progressively difficult areas to be cleaned up, starting
with the fairly straightforward street, and ending on the dangerous
and difficult boardwalk.Prove that you're up to the challenge of
these mean streets, and you'll get the chance to really test your
skill in the ultimate challenge, against two other ultr skillful
opponents.There's nothing to collect or do, just race to be the first
to cross the finishing line.This race has the biggest rewards up for
grabs, but the hazards and narrow track mean that it's gonna require
split second timing, ultra accurate jumps and spins, and loads of
speed to finish top.Are you ready to prove you've got the gutz for
SKIDZ?

BIKE/SKATEBOARD SELECTION
You choose the bike or skateboard on the title screen at the
beginning of each game, using left/right joystick control.Each has
different advantages - the bike is narrower and can move through
areas that the skateboard is too vide for and uses less energy, but
the skateboard is more manoeuvrable and makes collecting objects
much easier.

Once loaded, the options screen will be displayed. Options are
chosen by moving the joystick left or right to higlight your
required choice, and pressing FIRE.Each of the six levels must be
completed in order of difficulty, so the Street level will be the
only one available at first.In addition, the shop can be checked
out, or you can practice the race sequence against one other
opponent.

JOYSTICK CONTROL
We have included two methods of control and the J key is used to
change from one to the other once the game has loaded.The default
mode is the first.

CONTROL SYSTEM 1
Pushing the FIRE BUTTON increases your speed by one point, and
holding down the FIRE BUTTON will maintain that speed.So, to
get a constant speed of three points, push the FIRE BUTTON
three times, holding it down on the third.The player can turn it
steps of 45 degrees by moving the joystick in the required
direction.Moving the joystick in the opposite direction to the
one you are travelling in will cause the bike/skateboard to stop.

CONTROL SYSTEM 2
Moving the joystick in any direction increases your speed by one
point in that direction, and holding it in that position keeps
the speed at that value.Acceleration is achieved by continually
tapping the joystick in a set direction.Releasing the joystick
completely will decelerate the bike/skateboard slowly.Whilst
moving it in the opposite direction to which you are travelling
causes the bike/skateboard to brake rapidly.The player can turn
in steps of 45 degrees by turning the joystick during normal
motion.A 90 degree turn is possible by releasing the joystick
and moving to a new position.

KEYBOARD CONTROLS
M - Toggle music on off.
J - Toggles between joystick modes 1 and 2.
P - Pause.
SPACE BAR - Display status screen.

ENERGY
Sixteen energy units are provided at the start of the game.One
energy unit is lost when the player crashes, if he falls in the
water, or if a cigarette is collected.Any energy left at the end
of a level is carried over to the next.The entire game ends if
the energy is reduced zero.

TIMER
The timer value begins at 350 at the start of each level, and
diminishes constantly during the game. Additional time bonuses
of 300 are added whenever a stopwatch is collected.If the timer
reaches zero on any level, "The Spirit" will attack you,
draining all your energy, giving you just a short time to find
 a stopwatch before you run out of energy.If a level is
completed with time in hand, it will be converted to a points
bonus.

LITTER
Paper, bottles and cans are collected during each level, and
should be placed in the bins.Up to ten pieces can be collected
at once, which are deposited in bins when the player touches
or goes behind a bin.The total percentage of litter collected
will be displayed each time letter is dropped into a dustbin,
and a level cannot be completed until at least 75% has been
put in the bins.Fifty points are awarded for each item of
litter deposited.

MONEY
Money, in the form of one, five, ten and twenty dollar bills,
as well as one dollar coins, can be collected from a set
positions on each level.Extra money will also appear after
performing a succesful trick/spin.The money can be used in
the shop before starting each level.

HOPPING
Small obstacles can be hopped over by pressing the FIRE
BUTTON when travelling at speed 4.Hopping also allows the
player to move up onto the pavements without crashing into
the kerb,The hop will last longer if a spin is performed at
the same time, which makes it possible to hop over wide
obstacles and gaps.

TRICKS
A spin can be performed by pressing the FIRE BUTTON and
turning through 360 degrees before landing.If the player
is facing a different direction on landing they will crash
, otherwise money will appear which can then be collected.
As you win money for the performance of tricks, the money
dotted around the level will begin to disappear, saving you
the trouble of going hunting for it.

RAMPS
Ramps can be jumped at speed 3 and 4, and will give 500 points
each time.Tricks can also be performed by spinning around once
or twice before landing.

BONUSES
Bonus items can be collected during each level, giving one
energy unit as well as 50, 100 or 200 points depending on
the bonus collected.Different types of bonuses are found
on each level:

Street          - Fruit
Park            - Burgers, Chocolate
Building Site   - Tools
Chinatown       - Cakes, Ice-cream
Canal           - Fruit
Boardwalk       - Cakes, Ice-cream

Hidden bonuses  are dotted around the levels, giving you extra
points, time or energy.

TASKS
There is a special task associated with each level.The task
item must be collected and delivered to the correct
destination further down the level.Bonus points are awarded
on the succesful comletion of each level.The different items
for each level are as follows:

Street          - Parcel
Park            - Fish food
Building site   - Newspaper
Chinatown       - Chopsticks
Canal           - Tub of maggots
Boardwalk       - Bucket and spade

MUGGER
A mugger appears on each level, running down the screen.If
the player touches a mugger, he crashes and loses all his
money.

DAMAGE
If the player rides over glass, slinters, nails etc. damage
is caused to the wheels of the bike or skateboard.The players
top speed is then limited to speed 3 instead of 4.Wheels return
to normal if a puncture outfit is collected from the level, or
if the outfit or new wheels are purchased from the shop after
finishing the level.Also, wheels gradually wear down from one
level to the next, making acceleration slower each time.
Maximum acceleratino is restored when new wheels are
purchased in the shop.

SHOP
The shop can be selected between levels, on the first
selection screen.As you start the game with no cash it is not
worth visiting the shop until you have completed one of the
levels.When in the shop move the joystick LEFT/RIGHT to
highlight the required item(s).The following items can be
bought:

ITEM                   PRICE FUNCTION
Wheels(bike)            $50  Repairs wheel damage and wear.
Wheels(skateboard)      $50  Repairs wheel damage and wear.
Helmet                  $90  Reduces energy loss for crash.
Brakes(bike)            $30  Bike slows down faster.
Water Bottle            $20  Restores four energy units.
Medical Kit             $50  Restores twelve energy units.
Pads                    $40  Reduces energy loss for crash.
Puncture outfit(bike)   $10  Repairs wheel damage.
Stopper(skateboard)     $30  Skateboard slows down faster.

New items must be bought for each levels, as required.

RACE
The full race can only be selected after all the other levels have
succesfully completed.The race is against two opponents, one slow
and one fast.No bonuses, timer or energy loss function on the
race level.As you cross the finishing line, a message will report
your finishing position, and if you win the race you will be
presented with a trophy at the end of the game.100.000 points
are awarded for finishing third, 200.000 for second and 300.000
for first.
