                             THE GRAIL

Typed in by SCOTTY. Edited by PARASITE.


THE ERTALIAN WAR THE FINAL DAYS

A GREAT DARKNESS COVERS THE LAND OF KABAR.
The terrible war is laying waste to the land. Starvation is no
longer a stranger at the hearths of Kabar. Fields which once were
rich with the bounty of the land lay fallow. Men and even boys are
being pressed into the service of the Wizard King, Bentalynz.

Each day more news arrives of more deaths in battle. Mystical
figures, conjured by the Mages of Ertal, appear in the streets of
the city wreaking havoc upon all who dare to venture away from the
safety of their homes.

Werewolfs and terrible demons are everywhere. Travel is possible,
only with the protection of the most powerful magical spells.

Even Lord Sulphres, grand nephew of Bentalynz, is rumored to be
tiring from the long war. However, his maticks - Number of sticks of dynamite
necessary to blow-up the building.

Circles - Length of time needed to plant the explosives.  Each full red
     circle represents one hour, with half and quarter red segments
     representing half and quarter hours respectively.

Boxes - The stock of dynamite available to you.  Each box of dynamite
     contains two bundles of six sticks.

Sabotaging buildings involves strategically laying dynamite around them,
wiring the explosives to a detonator box, retiring a safe distance and
BANG!  Another building useful to the enemy has been eliminated.

The art of laying dynamite has been mastered by your 32 team members to
differing degrees, and it is their level of sabotage skill and their
state of health, combined with the size and strength of the building
which determines how much dynamite is needed.  The time it takes to lay
the explosives varies according to the type of building.

Plant the dynamite by clicking on the building you want to blow up.  This
wires the building to the detonator and adds the appropriate time to the
personal watch.  Your stockpile of dynamite dwindles.

The dynamite can be removed by clicking on the building again.  The
personal watch is reset to its previous time, and the sticks are
returned to the stockpile.

Any number of buildings can be wired up simultaneously if the stocks of
dynamite permit.  When you are ready, click on the detonator icon to
depress the plunger.  The building, or buildings, will explode in
sequence.  The sabotage display then shows ruins where buildings once
stood.

Some combinations of buildings take such a time to wire that the
saboteur's personal time overruns the report time by several hours.
After such sabotage, he will be unable to do anything else until the next
report time.

Select the Decisions Display by clicking on the appropriate icon.  When
you subsequently select on of the 3-D action modes, any buildings which
you have destroyed will be found in ruins.

If the enemy have captured one of your Police Officers and imprisoned him
in the cells of a Police Station, he can be liberated by destroying the
station.  He may then be recruited by entering the ruins and asking him
for help in the normal way.

Sabotage is of great strategic importance.  Blowing up Factories deprives
the enemy of ammunition, blowing up Synthesis Plants deprives him of fuel
and blowing up Warehouses deprives him of both!  Sabotage of all his
radio stations enables you to recruit a full team of 32 members.
Ultimately, to win, you must blow the enemy HQ to smithereens!

REST
Muscle Power is drained by strenuous activities such as skiing and must be
replenished from time to time by rest.  Energy is then transferred from
the Energy Reserves to Muscle Power.

You can rest for five minutes by clicking on the Muscle Power indicator
on the Decisions Display.  In other situations, rest is automatic.  After
a blackout in any action mode the individual you are controlling will
always take five minutes rest.  An individual rests for the whole
duration of a cable-car journey, and also when he is eating or sleeping.
Individuals with spare time when watches are synchronized automatically
rest for that period.

The benefit given by rest depends on the individual's location.  The
cozier the building the quicker Muscle Power is restored.  Resting out in
the wilderness gives the least benefit.

EAT
All the individuals in the game need to eat from time to time to
replenish their energy reserves.  The level of energy reserves an
individual has is shown as one of the Qualities and Skills on his
Personality Display.  Excessive use of Muscle Power soon makes demands on
their energy reserves.

Meals can be taken in a House, a Store, a Police Station, or a Mountain
Hut.  When an individual enters one of these buildings, the 'eat' icon
will be displayed.  Clicking on this allows him to eat a meal, which will
take him half an hour.  The time will automatically be added to the
individual's personal time and his Energy will be replenished.  The
individual is then free to select any further options available to him.

You can eat as much as you like, but there is little point once your
Energy level is at maximum.

SLEEP
Alertness gradually decreases during any action mode and must be
replenished from time to time by sleep.  Otherwise, an individual's
performance can be severely affected.  An individual can sleep in a
House, a Hut or a Police Station.  When he enters one of these buildings,
the "Sleep" icon appears on the Decisions Display.  Clicking on this
allows him to sleep until the next Situation Report.  Further time can be
spent sleeping, but this is not automatic.

RESCUE
Rescue normally happens automatically.  If an individual is so badly
injured in a crash that he cannot move, after the crash he will find
himself inside the nearest building.  He has been rescued by members of
the local population.  Occasionally he'll find that he's been rescued by
the enemy and imprisoned in a Police Station (if this happens another
person will have to blow up the Police Station before he can move).
Likewise, a person will always be rescued if he crashes into a lake or
into the sea.

There are occasions when an individual is injured but not immobilized; he
is forced to move very slowly.  In this sort of situation it would be
very useful to be rescued.  For this purpose, each team member has a
distress flare.  This can be fired at any time during the game by
clicking on the S.O.S. icon on the Personality Display.  Once it is fired
he will be rescued immediately.  You must choose you moment carefully
because each team member only has one distress flare throughout the game.

FIRST AID
From time to time individuals may be injured in action.  As explained
earlier, the State of Health of a individual is shown on the Personality
Display by the color of the figure behind the Qualities and Skills list.
If an individual becomes injured (i.e. one of his limbs turns orange or
red), he can be helped in his recovery by receiving First Aid from a
fellow Peace Force member.  However, for this to be possible, the injured
party must be in the company of another individual.

The Peace Force members have all received First Aid tuition as part of
their training, but Nurse Maddocks and Doctor Revel are obviously far
more skilled than the others in the treatment of ailments.  Receiving
First Aid speeds up recovery from injury - it does not make an individual
instantly healthy - and treatment from either of the experts will hasten
recovery to a greater degree than if treatment is form non-specialists.

If an individual is in the company of an injured person the First Aid
icon will appear on the Decisions Display.  Selecting this will access
the First Aid display, showing the individual's portrait in the top left
hand corner, and those of the injured companions below.  Icons are also
present allowing you to scroll pages (in case there is a party of wounded
people!), and to return to decisions mode.  Select the person you wish to
treat by click on his portrait.

The portraits of the 'nurse' and 'patient' are displayed along with the
personal time watch of the 'nurse', and the report time watch.  The
scroll icons allow you to select another patient.  The state of health
display of the 'patient' is shown, indicating in the usual way which
limbs are damaged.  Each damaged limb has a number next to it, which
shows how many minutes it will take to bandage that limb.

Limbs are bandaged individually by moving the on-screen pointer over the
selected limb and clicking the left mouse button.  Medical experts will
apply white bandages, whilst others will apply gray bandages!  As the
bandages are applied, the personal time clock is updated.

REFUEL
If an individual has been driving a snow-buggy and he then enter a
garage, the refuel icon will appear on the Decisions Display.
