                          UPLOADING INSTRUCTIONS
                          ======================

To those who never fully read the README's:  Upload foo.readme for foo.lha,
where foo.readme contains they keyword Short:  plus a 40 character
description on the first line. Don't upload if CD releases are a problem.

All others please read below instructions carefully, or your upload is in
danger of being deleted.  Uploading to Aminet is a bit more complicated
than to other places since it's a network of sites and provides more info
about files. It's a bit of work for you, but it saves a lot of hassle to
the many, many downloaders.


                              WHAT TO UPLOAD
                              --------------

This FTP site is intended for the distribution of any type of freely 
distributable software. However, due do copyright laws and internet 
provider restrictions, we have to set the following conditions:

DO NOT UPLOAD:
- Commercial software
- Software that is not OK to distribute on CD (see below for exceptions)
- Samples from copyrighted CD's, TV or radio broadcasts
- Musical mods that are cover versions from copyrighted songs
- Images or animations from copyrighted image sources
- Images depicting persons who didn't agree with the distribution
- Images of sexual content
- GNU software without sources
- Strong cryptography (key length >40 bit)
- GIF/LZW software without telling us by email that you have a license
- GIF pictures
- DMS files

Please respect these conditions, or you could bring Aminet in danger of
being shut down.


                              WHERE TO UPLOAD
                              ---------------

Aminet consists of about 20 FTP sites and 60 BBSes that exchange their files.
The center of the net is wuarchive.wustl.edu [128.252.135.4].  If possible,
upload there.  Most other sites (ftp.uni-paderborn.de recommended for 
Europeans) forward the files to that site and delete them locally, they'll 
be mirrored back later. Do not upload the same file to multiple Aminet sites.

There are two upload directories on Aminet sites:

  pub/aminet/new    for public uploads
  pub/aminet/priv   for private uploads   (local to this site)

Uploads in new/ that have no .readme will be deleted since they could be 
commercial or otherwise suspect.  If your upload appears in RECENT
within 4 days, everything was fine (don't delete your copy before that 
happens!). If not, contact aminet@wuarchive.wustl.edu 

If you provided an Uploader: field, you'll get a mail if we deleted your 
upload for any reason (e.g. because it was corrupt).


                              PUBLIC UPLOADS
                              --------------

The main difference between Aminet and most other ftp sites is that all
uploads have a description.  They're collected automatically and listed in
RECENT and INDEX.  These short (40 characters) descriptions come from the
.readme files uploaded along with the binaries.

Whenever you upload something, create .readme file for it.  An example:
Along with PictureView.lha you would upload PictureView.readme.  That file
could look about like this (no blank lines at the start, and don't
include the CUT HERE lines):


--------------------------------CUT HERE------------------------------
Short:    Shows JPEG & IFF pics. AGA support. V1.2
Uploader: umueller@amiga.icu.net.ch (Urban Mueller)
Author:   umueller@amiga.icu.net.ch (Urban Mueller)
Type:     gfx/show

This all new picture displayer is capable of showing almost any image
type in any resolution. Main features include:
- Scrolling screens
- CLI and WB interface
 ......
--------------------------------CUT HERE------------------------------

The meaning of these fields is:

Short:        is the only mandatory field, and has to be in the first
              line. It lets you specify a 40 character description of your
              upload, that will be seen and INDEX and RECENT so everyone 
              can easily learn about your upload. Don't repeat the file 
              name here, but if several versions of your archive exist, 
              specify the version number here. Try to explain what the 
              program *does*. Music should specify the style.

Uploader:     lets you indicate your email address so we can contact you
              if something goes wrong (and this happens more often than 
              you think). Please always provide it.

Author:       is the place where you can indicate who created the piece of
              software you uploaded.

Type:         is the place where you can propose a directory where the file
              should be moved. Check the file TREE for possible subdirs. If
              you want a new dir, read info/start/newdir.txt


Now for some completely optional fields:

Kurz:         is the German version of Short:

Replaces:     lets you specify files that are superseded by your upload.
              Give full path, e.g. biz/patch/PageStreamPatch*

Requires:     other archives that your upload needs to work, with full
              path. Also name OS, mem and chipset requirements here.

Version:      the version number of your upload. Don't use version 
              numbers in files names if possible.

Distribution: lets you specify where your upload is OK to distribute.
              If you specify the 'NoCD' keyword here, your upload will
              not appear on the CD's made of this site. If you specify
              'Aminet', you only give Aminet the distribution permission.

After a blank line, you may add a longer description, that could for 
example be the README found inside the archive.  Don't rely on people 
downloading the .readme file, the info found there should be in the 
archive, as well.

Notes: 
- If your upload requires a language other than English, please mention
  that language in the Short: description.
- You can overwrite old versions of your uploads by uploading again
  using the same file name. This is the preferred way to do updates.
  However don't update within 10 days of previous upload.
- If you want to make sure your file is not renamed on the CD, only use
  letters, digits and _ in the name and make sure the first 8 characters
  are unique.


                         FILE NAME CONVENTIONS
                         ---------------------

The maximum file name length is 18 characters including the archiver suffix
(.lha, .lzh).  Mixed case is OK, but it should be mainly lowercase. If your
file name is generic (ls, pipe), append your initials (pipe-JU). Version
numbers are better in the Short: descriptions than in the file name. Also, 
please do not upload in any other file format than .lha or .lzh. Also, .jpg
and .mpg files can be uploaded without putting them in archives. If you're
uploading from a PC, you may use .rea instead of .readme. By adhering to 
these rules you can save a lot of beginners a lot of trouble.


                                CHECK LIST
                                ----------

- Are the archives okay? Use UNIX LhA to find out.
- Is there a .readme for *every* file you are about to upload?
- Are the base names of the .readme and the archive the same? Same case?
- Are all archive names 18 characters or shorter?
- Is there a Short: and if possible an Uploader: field in the .readme's?
- Does none of the archives contain copyrighted or Workbench material?
- Is the archive free of BBS ads?

Thanks for checking, you're saving us a lot of work.


                            PRIVATE UPLOADS
                            ---------------

You may upload files that are not meant to be available to the public to
/amiga/priv.  Files in there can not be listed, so you have to tell your
partner the precise file name.  Files remain available at least one week,
much longer in most cases.  Note that we don't give any warranties about
the privacy of the files in there, encrypt them if you like.



                             YOUR COMMENTS
                             -------------

If you have any comments about the policies given, or if you see 
suspicious, commercial or corrupt files, please immediately send mail 
to aminet@aminet.org
