KULT:


                            SOLUTION


The twins:Object needed-Goblet. Go to the source on the lefthand side. Inspect
fountain and press the eye. Fill the goblet and go back to the room called the
twins. Open the lefthand serpent and empty the goblet in it. Get the die. Then
open righthand serpent. Throw the die and note the number. Put the die in the
open serpent and go to the room facing you. The hands are in dice formation. 
Pull up the hands until they resemble the formation you threw earlier. Then
push the serpents head on the wall. The sliding partition should open;note
down the shape wich it covered. Go back to the fountain room and inspect each
cube. Lift the cube which resembles the one you found earlier. 

In the scorpions presence:Object needed-Fly. Pray to the statue then enter room
called'The web'. Look at the Web on the floor and crawl on it. Give the mistress
the fly;show attention but don't go to far. Feed the fly to the blue spider and
get the red one. Leave the room, and put the red spider into the statue's mouth
Don't listen to the man who pops out pass through the trapdoor. 

The Wall:Object needed-Dagger or use Psi-shift. First choose the third zone, 
then the second zone . Go through either door left or right and inspect step
Then take a look at the slot on the sculpted warrior and climb onto step. 
Either put your dagger into the slot , or use psi-shift. You will be spun around
by the wall. There are now 2 seperate gaps in the wall. Move to the black passage
Stick your hand in the gap on the floor. Return the way you came. 

De Profundis:Object needed-rope. First wait. Then bind your rope onto hook. 
When the monster appears jump on him. Wait a few minutes. 

The Noose:Object needed-none. Do not as the Poormouth says. Use either Lantarn
or Solareyes. Grab hold of lefthandrope and climb up. Push the lever, remove
the noose-rope and he will fall. Take the lefthand piece of rope. Inspect the
hollow on the platform. Then leave to the masters orbit. 

Then give all five skulls to the Protozorg underneath the trader. He will
announce that you are a divo!. Go to the concourse outside the ring. And
show the egg if you are asked any questions. In the concourse ignore the
guard and use all violence on the upper righthand guard. Then enter upper
righthand passage. Go left. Inspect the toad's head and poke its eye. Use the
Lantern(or solareyes). Inspect the lever and the trapdoor. use psishift on
lever and go through the trapdoor. Meet Norma Jean and Ash. You must do as
Norma Jean says don't move! Tell her the truth. Talk to both of them and
use zoomscan. Lift your block on the floor and get both objects, the beam
and the flask. Unwrap the bandages on the mummy, go to the left and keep
going forward. By going through the trapdoor you will enter the Treshhold
of truth. Kill the priestess and put the egg in the openen mouth. Next off, 
take a look at the lantern. Read the book, then use your psishift on the
statuette to retrieve it on the lefthandside, near the ceiling.

Leave and go to the refectory, then to Sauras Repose. Put the statuette you
found into the niche the go to the Presence of God, and then to Placating
the Powers. Kill the first priestess, then make use of Psishift on Saura's
mark, aiming it at her dagger. Use Brainwarp on the character, Sci-fi, then
give her the flask to drink. Go to Sauras Repose, putting the monkey into
the small tunnel. Enter the presence of God and wait. Go into the passage
and wait. Use aggro on the god, Zorg, and then use brainwarp on Pratozim, who
is holding sci-fi hostage. Use Psi-shift on the trapdoor, and finaly throw
the knife or dagger to Pratozim!!

