	         AMIGA GAME LIST (by game type & description)

     This list of games, that has been in limited cirulation in Southern
California, is I believe someone's actual wares list. It is noteworthy
because 1) the collector has arranged his games by type and 2) has
included game descriptions. Note the list also marks with a + sign whether 
a game has been trained and with a number in parenthesis (2) the number of 
disks the game requires. The list also includes over 50 compact disks. The
person's game grading is incomplete, reflects his taste and is not very 
reliable. The list is not complete as there are obviously many games the
person did not collect.
     The list shows a remarkable number of trained games. They include
numerous games that are not in POSTCARD MAN's file of 405 game cheat files. 
I have a feeling that there are many more trainers available, but most 
people don't mark their disks reflecting whether they are trained versions.

                                                   Postcard Man

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

			AMIGA   SOFTWARE   LIST		       3/20/92

	E N T E R T A I N M E N T    S O F T W A R E

     KEY: [+ Game trained] [* On compact disk] [ (2) # disks req.]
	------------------------------------------
     DUNGEONS & DRAGONS & FANTASY ROLE PLAYING GAMES

     Abandoned Places (Elec Zoo) Above ground & in dungeons of Kalynthia (5)
     Bard's Tale (EA) - D & D in cities & dungeons
     Bard's Tale II (EA) - D & D more spells, better creatures, etc.
     Bard's Tale III (EA) -
     Battlemaster (Mirrorsoft) D & D search kingdom for treasure
     Battletech (Infocom) - Role playing game as a battletech robot
     Black Crypt (EA) (3) - Dungeon Master look-alike
D+  *Blood Wych - D & D - small 3D view
     Captive (Mindscape) - send robots to planet & explore 3D caverns
A    Chaos Strikes Back (FTL) - sequel to Dungeon Master (2)
     Champions of Krynn (SSI) - D & D - Defeat dark Queen Takhisis (3)
     Crystals of Arborea (Silmarlis) - 3D in French - how play, how fight??
     Curse of Azure Bonds (SSI) - D & D Break curse on you (2)
     Deathbringer (Spotlight) - Explore kingdom for five gems of Zator (2)
     Deathknights of Krynn (SSI)
     Dragon Wars(Interplay)-Escape from prison,defeat dragons guarding city(2)
     Dragon of Flame (US Gold) - D&D with animated fighting sequences
     Dragon's Breath (Palace) - D&D you are dragon? mix potions in lab (2)
     Dragon Flight - D&D like Ultima (2)
     Drakken (Draconian) - D&D (2)
A    Dungeon Master (FTL) - Fabulous 13 level dungeon game - monsters
        Dungeon Master Hint Disk
        Dungeon Master Character Editor
A    Eye of Beholder (SSI) _Role playing, 3D view like Dungeon Master (3)
     Heimdall (Core) Recover three heavenly weapons on islands (5)
    +Hero Quest (Gremlin) - D & D based on board game
        Hero Quest Data Disk - Return of Witch Lord
     Hillsfar (SSI) - D&D characters hone fighting skills
    +Knightmare (Mindscape) - D & D  Dungeonmaster clone but not as good (2)
     Lords of Chaos (Blade)  - D & D game - **need docs to play**
     Lord of the Rings (Interplay) Roleplaying in Middle Earth (3)
     Mega Traveller (EA) - Role playing space game (2)
     Moebius (Origin) - Role playing game with martial arts
     Might & Magic II (New World) - D&D (2)
     Obitus (Psygnosis) - D&D graphics - smooth in movement (3)
     Paladin (Omnitrend) - Animated fantasy & combat
        Paladin - Scrolls of Talmouth - data disk
D+   Rogue (EPYX) - D & D in underground dungeon - weak graphics
     Secret of Silver Blades (SSI) - D & D - Sequel to Pool of Radiance
     Shadowlands (Domark)  (2)
     Shadow Sorceror (US Gold) D & D game in Dragonlance series (2)
     Temple of Aphsai Trilogy (EPYX) - D & D - 12 levels ;600 rooms
     Ultima III (Origin) - Defeat the evil wizard
     Ultima IV (Origin) - Become an Avatar & lead your people
     Ultima V (Origin)-Find lost king in underworld & restore him as king (2)
     Ultima VI (Origin) - (3)
     War on Middle Earth - Quest with charaters from Hobbit (2)
D+   Windwalker (Origin) Wander countryside-battles with icon/mouse
	
	FLIGHT SIMULATORS & AIR COMBAT GAMES

     A-10 Tank Killer ( ) Missions against enemy on battlefield (2)
     Battlehawks 1942 (LucasGames)- WWII air combat in Pacific-no landings (2)
     Birds of Prey (EA) - State of the art planes (2)
     Blue Angels (Accolade) - Fly stunts in airshow with Blue Angels jets
     Blue Max (360 Software) - WW1 combat (3)
C    Chuck Yeager 2.0 ( ) - Combat simulator - rather slow animation
C-   Dragon Strike(SSI)Fly dragon in 3D,kill enemy with lance-mouse control(2)
     F-15 II (Microprose) - Combat in Mideast, Europe & Asia
A    F-16 Combat Pilot (Digital Creations) - Combat missions
B+   F-18 Interceptor (EA) - Fight MIGs over San Francisco
A    F-19 (Microprose) - Missions over Mideast and Europe (2)
     F-29 Retaliator (Ocean) - Combat flight simulator - missions (2)
A    Falcon 1.2 (Spectrum Holybyte) - Combat Flight Simulator (2)
        Falcon - Operation Counterstrike - Scenario Disk - Replaces Disk #1
        Falcon - Operation Firefight - 2nd Scenario disk
     Fighter Bomber (Activision) - Bombing missions (2)
        Fighter Bomber - Mission Disk
     Fighter Duel (     ) (2)
     Flight of the Intruder (Mirroresoft) - Modern combat simulator
B    Flight Simulator II (Sublogic) - Learn to fly Cessna or Lear Jet
        Hawaii Scenery Disk - for Flight Sim II
     Gunship (Microprose) - Helicopter combat game
D    Harrier Mission (Anco)
B-   Jet (Sublogic) - Combat game
     Knights of the Sky (Microprose) - World War I planes (2)
     Mig 29 Super Fulcrum (Domark)
     Red Baron (Sierra) - WW1 planes against German aces (3)
     Strike Aces (Accolade) - Combat missions (aka Fighter Bomber) (2)
     Strike Force Harrier (Mirrorsoft) Combat - slightly slow
     Their Finest Hour (Lucasgames) - Combat over Britian during WWII (2)
    +Thunderhawks (Core) - Helicopter battles in world wide hot spots 
     Wings (Cinemaware) - WW1 biplane - combat (2)

        
	LAND & SEA WAR -  MODERN COMBAT GAMES

     Das Boot (360 Software) - Submarine warfare (2)
     Destroyer (EPYX) - Hunt submarines
     Harpoon (360) - Hunt subs (2)
C    Hunt for Red October (Datasoft) - Red submarine defects
     Red Storm Rising (Microprose) - Sub game based on book (2)
     Silent Service (Microprose) - Submarine
     Silent Service II (Microprose) - Submarine
     Sub Battle (Epyx) - operate submarine & hunt ships
     USS John Young (MagicBytes) - Destroy ships with surface craft (2)
B+   Team Yankee (Empire)-Fight Russians with 4 tank columns in 4 windows
     War Game Construction Set (SSI) Construct & play different scenarios
     Wolfpack (Broderbund) - Battle between German U-boats & Allied convoys
     688 Attack Sub (Lucasgames) - operate submarines & hunt ships


        HISTORICAL, MYTHICAL & DIPLOMACY WAR GAMES

D   *Armagedon Man (Martech) - Play U.N.,try to save world with advice	
     Balance of Power (Mindscape) - Diplomatic become superpower leader
     Balance of Power 1990 (Mindscape) - Diplomatic game - lead USA or USSR
     Bandit King of Ancient China (KOEI)-Wargame in ancient China (2)
     Battle Isle (Ubisoft)Hex grid-battle against defense computer's droids(2)
     Betrayal (Rainbird) - Wrest control of kingdom by treachery (2)
     Cardinal in Kremlin (Accolade)Race with USSR to build laser defense sys.
     Carthage (Psygnosis)-War game strategy with arcade sequences (2)
     Castles (Interplay) - Build and defend castle from seige (2)
     Celtic Legends (Ubisoft) Free islands of Celtica from evil-use magic (2)
     Centurian (EA) Roman legions conquor barbarians (2)
     Champions of the Raj (PSS) - Rule India
     Conflict (Mastertronic) - Mideast diplomacy game - save Isreal
     Day of the Pharoah - Become king of Egypt and rule kingdom (2)
     Defender of the Crown (Cinemaware) Conquer England - simplistic (2)
    *Diplomacy (AH) - European war game - 7 human players
A    Empire (EA) - War game - conquer the world
     Final Conflict (Impressions) - Spy diplomacy war game
     Fort Apache (Impressions) War game army against Indians
     Gettysburg (ARC) - Wargame in 3D view (need docs)
     Ghengis Khan (KOEI)- Wargame in ancient China (2)
     Gold of the Americas ( ) - Conquer America during 17th century
C    Joan of Arc - Defeat England & unify France - strategy & arcade (2)
     Khalaan (Rain Arts)-Caliph conquers country-decide between war & peace(2)
     Kingdoms of England (Incognito) - conquer England (2)
     L'Art de la Guerre - French version of Broderbund's Ancient Art of War
     Laser Squad (Microillusions)-squad attacks headquarters - rescue
A-   Lords of the Rising Sun (Cinemaware) - Conquer Japan samauri days (2)
     Lost Patrol (Ocean)-Guys must get out of Vietnam jungle alive (2)
D+   Medieval Warrior (Merit) - Give individual orders to 12 soldiers- boring
A   +Mega-lo-mania (Imageworks) - Invent weapons to battle enemy tribes (2)
     Midwinter II(Microprose)Agent stops enemy island from gaining control(3)
     North & South - Civil war game
B-   Nuclear War (New World) - Based on board game - humorous (2)
     Omega (Origin) Design cybertank & program to beat other tanks
     Operation Combat - Tactical war game - interesting
     Perfect General (Quantum) Hex grid war game-many scenarios-easy learn(2)
A    Pirates (Microprose) - Play pirate & battle ships at sea (2)
A    Populus (Bullfrog) - Populate territory & defeat enemy
        Populus Scenario disk - 5 extra worlds; west world, legoland, etc.
    +Populus II (Bullfrog) - Sequel with more godly features;earth,air,fire
A    Powermounger (Bullfrog) - Play god & conquer territory-3D view, difficult
        Powermounger Data Disk - World War I
D+   Power Struggle (Datasoft) - somewhat like Risk
B    Realms (Virgin)- Cross between Sim City and a war game (PAL)(2)
     Risk (Virgin) - Conquer world board game - computer opponents
     Robin Hood (Milenium) 3D isometric - Battle sheriff, give & take gifts
B    Romance of Three Kingdoms (KOEI) - wargame in ancient China
C+   Seven Cities of Gold (EA) - Send ships to explore & conquor New World(2)     
C-   Spirit of Excalibur(Virgin)King Arthur's heir tries to regain kingdom(3)
     Storm Master (Similaris) French-Medieval war game - spells, invent, etc
     Strike Fleet (EA) - Defeat enemy fleet
    +Swords & Galleons(Idea)-Amass money in trade for ship-to defeat pirates(3)
B-   Utopia (Gremlin) - Protect space colony from aliens- build like SimCity(2)
B    Warlords (EA) - 8 players conquer mythical kingdom of Illuria (2)

	SPACE STRATEGY GAMES

     Duterous (Acti)-Explore 7 worlds, but must built ships & Technology first
    +Elite Ver 2.0 (Rainbird) - 3D space shoot-em-up & trading game
     Federation of Freetraders - 3D space game like Elite
     Full Metal Planet ( ) - Operate space mining complex
     Gravity (Imageworks) - Space fight game - how play?
     Imperium (EA) - Space conqueor game
     Milienium 2.2( ) Build ships & weapons on moonbase to attack planets
     Supremency (Virgin)(aka Overlord)-Colonize planets to conqueor galaxy(2)
    *Warhead ( ) - Space missions
     Xiphos (Elec Zoo) - 3D space shoot-em-up like Elite (2)
	
	MISC. SIMULATIONS

     Big Business (Digitek) - Compete in the business world
     Debut (Pandora) - World simulator (PAL) (2)
     Final Assult (EPYX) - Mountain climbing
     Germ Crazy (Electroic Zoo) - Stop viruses in body - lots of icons
C    Kennedy Approach (Microprose)- play air traffic controller;speech
     Life & Death (Soft Toolworks) - Diagnois & operate on patient
     Moonbase (Beagle Bros) - Build moonbase & run it - like Sim City
C+   Ports of Call (Aegis) - Manage shipping company
     Railroad Tycoon (Microprose) - Build & operate railroad empire
     Ramses ( ) - Rule Egypt, allocate resourses for harvest, pyramids, etc.
     Sim Ant (Maxis) - Guide ant colony to victory over rival ant colony (3)
A+   Sim City (Maxis) - Urban planning simulator
     Sim City - CDTV version - Enhanced requires hard disk (3)
        Sim City - Ancient Cities data disk
        Sim City - Future Cities data disk
	Sim City Terrain Editor (Maxis)
     Surgeon - Operate on a person; only one operation


	SPORTS GAMES - BASEBALL & BASKETBALL

    +Bo Jackson Baseball - aka TV Sports Baseball (Data East) - Baseball
     Championship Baseball (Gamestar) - Baseball
     Double Dribble (Konami) - Basketball
     Earl Weaver Baseball (EA) - Baseball
     Fast Break (Accolade) - Basketball
B    Hardball (Accolade) - Baseball
     Hardball 2 (Accolade) - Baseball
B-   Magic Johnson Basketball (Melborne) - basketball
     Omni Basketball - Basketball (2)
     One on One (EA) - Basketball - half court one on one - one or two people
     RBI Baseball II (Tengen) - Baseball
     Tip Off (Anco) - Basketball - top down view (2)
     TV Sports Basketball (Cinemaware) - Basketball (3)

        SPORTS GAMES - FOOTBALL & RUGBY

    *4th & Inches (Accolade) Football
     GFL Championship Football (Gamestar)
     John Madden Football - Football (2)
     Monday Night Football (Data East) - Football (3)
     Rugby World Cup ( ) - Scottish rugby
A    TV Sports Football (Cinemaware) - Great football game (2)

        SPORTS GAMES - SOCCER

    *Amiga Soccer (Microdeal)
D   *Gazza II (Empire) - Soccer game, overhead view
     Hot Shot (Gremlin) Soccer overhead view
B-   International Soccer Challenge (Microstyle) 3D soccer view
     Kenny Daglish Soccer - Soccer
A    Kick Off II (Anco) - Soccer on oversize scrolling field - moves too fast!
        Kick Off II - Final Whistle - expansion disk adds features
     Manchester United Europe ( ) - Soccer
B    Microprose Soccer - Soccer
     Player Manager (Anco) - Soccer on oversize playing field
    *Soccer King
     Super League Soccer ( ) - soccer
     World Trophy Soccer (Melborne) - Soccer
D+   3D Play Soccer(Simulmundo)(PAL)-3D view,More a simulation than pure arcade

        SPORTS GAMES - TENNIS, VOLLEYBALL & RACKETBALL

     Avantage Tennis (Infogrames) - Tennis
     Beach Volley - 2 on 2 beach volleyball
     Grand Slam Tennis ( ) - tennis
     Over the Net (Genius) - Volleyball
D+   Passing Shot - Tennis - overhead view
     Pro Tennis Tour II (Ubisoft) - 1 or 2 player teams
     Tennis Cup (Loricel) - split screen tennis - announcer
     Tie Break (Starbyte) - Overhead tennis, can play doubles (PAL)
    *Turtle Table Tennis (Starbyte) - Ping Pong
     World Championship Squash (Kristalis) - Like racketball,isometric view

        SPORTS GAMES - GOLF

B-   Hole in One Golf (Digi-Tek) - Miniature Golf (2)
     Jack Nicholas Golf - 3D golf game like Mean 18 - favorite holes (2)
     Jack Nickolas Unlimited Golf (Accolade) - 3D golf + design course
     Leader Board (Access) - Golf
C-   Mean 18 (Accolade) - Golf + design course - Graphics blocky & dated
	Mean 18 Course Disk Vol II (Accolade)
A    PGA Golf (EA) - 3D golf course (2)
        PGA Golf - Extra courses - three
     Ultimate Golf-Greg Norman's (Gremlin)
B    World Class Leader Board (Access)
B    Zany Golf (EA) - Minature golf - wierd holes

        SPORTS GAMES - BOXING & WRESTLING

C    4D Sports Boxing (Mindscape) 3D boxing game (2)
B    ABC Sports Boxing ( ) Boxing with close up view of fight
D   +Final Blow (Storm) - Boxing (PAL)
     International Championship Wrestling - wrestling (2)
     Pro Boxing Simulator (Codemasters) - Boxing
     Seconds Out (Tynesoft) - Boxing - see thru boxer - face to face
C-  +WWF Wrestlemania (Ocean) - Wrestling (2)

        SPORTS GAMES - WINTER SPORTS

D    Advanced Ski Simulator - frustrating & difficult course
     Blades of Steel (Konami) - Ice hockey
     Downhill Challenge (Microids) - 3D viewpoint Ski racing & ski jumping
     Face Off Ice Hockey (Kristalis) - Ice hockey
B    Ski or Die (EA) downhill, aerials, snowboard, intertube race, etc.
B    Super Ski II (Microids)Downhill Skiing, Ski Jumping, Bobsled, Aerials(2)
C    Super Star Ice Hockey (Mindscape) - hard to tell who you are
B    The Games (Winter Edition) (EPYX)- Skiing, luge; ice skating; etc (2)
A    Wayne Gretsky Ice Hockey (Bethesda) - Great team play game
A    Wayne Gretsky Ice Hockey II (Bethesda) - Hockey (2)
C    Winter Games (EPYX) - Ski jump, ice skating, tobaggan, shooting
C-   Winter Olympaid (Tynesoft)-Downhill,bobsled,skijump,biathalon,etc

        SPORTS GAMES - MISCELLANOUS

B    California Games (EPYX) - Skateboard, Surfing, Frisbee, etc. (2)
D+   Cueball - 3D Pool - difficult to play - rotate 3D table
C-   Indoor Sports (Mindscape) - darts, bowling, air hockey, ping pong
     International Championship Athletics (Hawk) - 16 track & field events
     Paraglider (Loricel) - Compete in paraglider contest
     Pool (Mastertronic) - Overhead view of table
D    Skate of Art - Skateboard game
     Street Hockey (Gonzo) - Difficult to control street hockey game
C    Summer Challenge (Tynesoft) -Skeet, fencing, jump, diving, hurdles
B    The Games (Summer Edition) - archery, hurdles, etc. (2)
C-   Windsurf - Windsurfing simulation
C+   World Games (EPYX) - Weird games from different countries
    *3D Pool (Mastertronic) - Pool with rotatable 3D table

        SPORTS GAMES - FUTURISTIC

     Cyberball (Tengen) - Robots on cycles play football
     Killer Ball (Microids) - Rollerball style game on circular track
     M.U.D.S. (Rainbow Arts)-Prisioners play brutal type of football (2)
B    Speedball (Imageworks) - Futuristic rollerball overhead hockey
A   +Speedball 2 (Imageworks)
     Wild Wheels (Ocean) - Like soccor but push ball with cars


	GRAPHIC & TEXT ADVENTURES (CLASSIC NON-ANIMATED)

     Adventure Construction Set (EA) - Design your own adventures
     Arthur (Infocom) - Gr. Adv - Arthur's quest for Excalibur
     Ballyhoo (Infocom) -At circus - rescue owner's kidnapped daughter
     B.A.T. (Ubisoft)- Gr Adv. Aliens hold world ransom - computer in arm (2)
     Beyond Zork (Infocom) - sequel; self maps;unraval disappearance of Wizard
     Borrowed Time (Activision) Gr. Adv- Discover who is trying to murder you
     Bureaucracy (Infocom)-Trials of red tape-try to change address
     Chrono-Quest (Psygnosis) - Gr. Adv in castle (2)
     Cutthroats (Infocom) - Treasure hunting on sunken shipwreck
     Deadline (Infocom) - Murder mystery od wealty industralist
     De Ja Vu (Mindscape) - Gr. Adv - Solve murder and regain memory
     De Ja Vu II(Mindscape)- Gr.Adv.In Las Vegas;need $100,000 or mob kills U
     Elivira - Mistress of Dark (Accolade) - Gr Adv. (5)
     Elvira II - Jaws of Cerberus (Accolade) - Gr Adv. (7)
     Enchanter (Infocom) - Novice magician in land of wizards & spells
     Final Battle (Mirrorsoft) - Icon based Gr Adv - begins in prison
     Guild of Theives (Rainbird) - Rob mansion in guild of criminals
     Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy(Infocom)-Time travel adv-humorous
     Hollywood Hijinks (Infocom)-Find 10 treasures uncle's film career
     Hound of Shadow (EA) - Gr. Adv. - Solve mystery (2)
     Island of Lost Hope-GrAdv.- Find treasure-stranded on island -pirates (2)
     Jewels of Darkness (Lv 9) - Gr Adv. Colossal Adv; Adv Quest; Dungeon Adv
     Kief the Thief (EA)-Gr. Adv. rob castles & become teenage godking (2)
     Leather Goddess of Phobos (Infocom) - Save Earth from domination
     Legend of the Sword - Graphics adventure - icon driven -self maps
     Lurking Horror (Infocom) - Explore dreaded horror benaeth G.U.E. Tech.
     Maupti Island (Lankhor) - Gr Adv- Detective solves kidnapping case
     Mind Forever Voyaging(Infocom)-Travel to future - test economic theory
     Mindshadow (Activision) - Gr. Adv -Regain your memory
     Moonmist (Infocom) -Travel to England to hunt phantom and find treasure
    *Nort & Bert (Infocom) - Use verbal tricks to complete puzzles in stories
     Ooze (Dragonware) - Rid evil ghost from mansion, friendly ghosts help (3)
     Pawn (Firebird) - Gr. Adv - Escape from Kerounia
     Planetfall (Infocom) - On strange planet - survive & repair ship
     Plundered Hearts (Infocom) - Woman escapes pirates in West Indies
     Sea Stalker (Infocom) Learn to operate sub before sea monster attacks
     Shadowgate (Mindscape) - Gr. Adv -spooky castle - defeat warlock
     Spellbreaker (Infocom) - Save your kingdom
     Sorceror (Infocom) -find & rescue Belboz;destroy Jeearr with spells
     Stationfall (Infocom)-Planetfall sequel-you find space station deserted
     Star Cross (Infocom) - Incounter remmants of an alien civilization
     Tass Times in Tonetown (Activision) - Gr. Adventure - Wierd
     The Third Courier(Accolade)-Gr. Adv.Secret agent recovers Nato's plans(2)
     Trinity (Infocom) - Time travel before first atomic bomb
     Twighlight Zone - Gr. Adv. Participate in several bizarre stories (2)
     Uninvited (Mindscape)-Gr.Adv-Search for brother & uncover mansion secret
     Wishbringer (Infocom) - Cat kidnapped in small town - mystery
     Witness (Infocom) - Detective mystery set in 1938
     Wonderland (Mag. Scrolls) Gr-Adv - Alice in Wonderland plot line (4)
     Xenomorph (Rainbird) - Gr. Adv. - in space complex - object?
     Zork I (Infocom)-Search ruins of underground empire for treasure
     Zork II (Infocom)-More puzzles in underground empire; find out why there?
     Zork III (Infocom) - Master 7 tasks in underground empire
     Zork Zero (Infocom) - Some graphic puzzle sequences

        GRAPHIC ADVENTURES (ANIMATED CHARACTER)

     Adventures Thru Time-Gr.Adv.-Search thru time for 5 historical artifacts(2)
     Black Cauldron (Sierra) - Gr arcade adventure based on movie
     Codename: Iceman (Sierra)- Gr adv. Rescue ambassador from terrorists (6)
     Conquest of Camelot (Sierra) - Gr Adv. - Search for the holy grail (6)
A    Cruise for a Corpse (Delphine) Solve murder mystery on cruise ship (5)
     Future Wars-Time Travelers(Delphine)-Gr.Adv.-Prevent Earth destruction(2)
     Gold Rush (Sierra) - Gr. Adv - Travel to Calif gold rush country (2)
     Hero's Quest (Sierra) - Gr. Adv. (5)
B+   Indiana Jones & Last Crusade (Luscasgames)-Gr. Adv based on movie (3)
B-   Jetsons (MicroIllusions) - Gr-. Adv - fix things on robotopia (2)
     Kings Quest (Sierra) - Gr. Adv. - Complete quest and win crown
     Kings Quest II (Sierra) - Gr. Adv. - Find 3 magic keys to enchanted land
     Kings Quest III (Sierra)- Gr. Adv.-Help Gwydion break free of evil wizard
     Kings Quest IV (Sierra) - Gr. Adv. (4)
B    Kings Quest V (Sierra) - Gr. Adv. (8)
     Leisure Suit Larry (Sierra) - Gr. Adv. - Adult themes
     Leisure Suit Larry III (Sierra) - Gr. Adv - adult themes (5)
B+   Loom (Lucasgames) - Gr. Adv. - Save kingdom with musical spells (3)
     Man Hunter - New York (Sierra) - Gr. Adv -Spy for aliens on Earth (2)
B+   Maniac Mansion(Luscasgames) Gr-Free Sandy from Dr Ed's lab in mansion(2)
	Maniac Mansion Hint Disk
     Neuromancer (Interplay) - Gr. adv takes place in cyberspace
     Omnicron Conspiracy (Imageworks) - Inflitrate a drug ring? (2)
B-   Operation Stealth (Delphine) - Gr.adv. Spy to locate missing bomber
     Police Quest II (Sierra)-Gr Adv. Detective tracks down escaped convict(3)
C+   Search for the King (Accolade)- Gr Adv. - Search for Elvis (5)
A    Secret of Monkey Island (Lucas)-Gr Adv.- Play pirate and find treasure(4)
     Space Quest (Sierra) - Gr. Adv - Save planet from ship-napping Sariens
     Space Quest II (Sierra) - Gr. Adv.-Defeat evil scientist, Sludge Vohaul
B    Space Quest III(Sierra)-Gr.Adv.Battle pirates to save software authors(4)
B    Willy Beamish Adv (Sierra)
B-   Zak MacCracken (Lucasgames) - Gr. Adv. - Uncover alien plot

		MISCELLANOUS ARCADE GAMES
	     -------------------------
	ARCADE ADVENTURES & ARCADE STRATEGY

B-   Adventures of TinTin - Boy and dog save spaceship
     Another World (Delphine) Zapped into another world - escape from it (2)
     Amazing Spiderman (Empire) - Little guy crawls around - object??
B+   Archipelgos-Destroy radioactive towers on islands-connect stones to tower
     Around the World in 80 Days (Rainbow Arts) - part arcade (2)
     Australo Mechanicus - platforms, potions, kill enemies, object??
    +Baal (Psygnosis) - Explore caverns, avoid traps, kill things save Earth
C-   Barbarian (Psygnosis) - Hegor the dragon slayer - object?; icon control
    +Barbarian II (Psygnosis) Battle monsters in forest,village & dungeon (3)
     Batman (Ocean)-Two arcade adventures; with Joker & Penguin
     Bermuda Project (Mirrorsoft)- arcade adventure - stranded on island
     Beyond Dark Castle (Activision) - In castle- conquor black knight (2)
     Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure( )Travel in time & lure people to future
C- +*Beyond Ice Palace - arcade adventure in cave
    +Black Tiger (US Gold) - arcade adv in cave - fight monsters-object?
     BSS Jane Seymour (Gremlin) -You must fix something wrong on spaceship (2)
     Cadaver (Imageworks)-search for treasure in castle catacombs- 3D view (2)
        Cadaver - Payoff mission disk
     Cadaver II - Last Supper (Imageworks)
    +Captain Planet & Planeteers (  ) Save planet
     Castlemaster (Incentive) Battle evil forces in 3D castle-rescue princess
     Castlemaster II (The Crypt) - In 3D castle - object???
     Castlevania (Konami) - In castle , fight creatures?
     Chamber of Sci Mutant Priestess (aka Kult) In castle -wierd icon driven
    +Chase HQ (Ocean) - Catch criminals with police car
     Chicago 90 (Microids) - Criminals in car must escape from cops in 3D city
B    Chuck Rock (Core) - Caveman rescues wife (2)
    +Chuck Rock (Core) - **Single disk version - not on my 2000**
     Colorado Rapids - Indian on river fights enemies
B+   Corporation (Core) Robot fights in planet's tunnels - 3D view-almost D&D
	Corporation - Mission disk
     Crime Doesn't Pay (Titus)- Steal things in building -criminals want loot
     Crossbow (System7) - arcade adv using weapons, keys, etc.
     Dark Castle (360) - Defeat the black knight in castle of Doom (2)
    *Darkside - 3D game -Find alien weapon on military base
C    Day of Viper (Accolade) Fix & rescue space ship, 3D view, icon controls
    +Death Trap (Anco)- Guy in castle,can convert flasks into spells -object??
    +Dick Tracy (Disney) Drive around city, collect culues to solve crimes (3)
     Down at the Trolls (Rainbow Arts) Quest in ladder connected rooms (2)
    *Driller(aka Space Station Oblivion) - drill on 3D planet
C+   Drol (Broderbund) - Rescue kids & mother in three level scrolling cave
     Eagle's Nest - Find Nazi treasure in castle filled with guards
    *Elf (MicroValue) - Guy wanders countryside in search of ??
    +Enchanted Lands ( ) Guy collects treasures in caves - enemies
C-   Enlightenment (Rainbird) Summon magician to aid quest to destroy evil
     Escape from Coldiz(DigitalMagic)Team of 4 try to escape from Nazi castle
B+  +Exile (Audiogenic) Guy with rocket pack on rescue mission on planet-hard
     Eye of Horus (Britanna)-Collect treasures in pryamid - can fly
     Fairy Tale Adventure (MicroIllusions) Quest to save land of Holm
     Final Countdown - Arcade adv in space station (2)
     Final Day (Amiga Fun) - search for something in space complex (PAL)
     First Contact (Rainbird) - Robots fight droids - object??
A   +First Samuari(Imageworks)Man with sword & weapons in search demon king(2)
    +Fred (Scopex) - Fight dwarfs for treasure - in cavern
D+   Fued (Bulldog)- Wander around countryside; spells; object??
     Future Sport - Defeat enemies on scrolling field  - object??
     G-Nius (Lankhor) -	many rooms, robot enemies, object??
    +Gauntlet 3 (US Gold)Isometric view, shoot hordes of creatures;object?(3)
     Goblins (CVS) Mouse operated quest-3 men with different capabilities (3) 
A   +GODS (Renegade)- Quest on platforms -mythlogical theme, many enemies (2)
     Gold of Aztecs(US Gold)Search for treasure protected by evil creatures(2)
     Gold of the Realm - Wander around countryside & castles to find treasure
     Golden Eagles (Loricel) Prisoner attempts to escape moon colony (3)
    +Haeger (Kingsoft) - Haeger battles on castle platforms in quest?? (3)
   +*Hammerfist (Act)-character transforms with different abilities-object?
     Head Over Heels(Ocean)(PAL)3D perspective,lots of rooms & puzzles,object?
     Highway Patrol II - Chase crooks down highway - catch them how??
     Hill Street Blues ( )- Police drive around NYC & catch criminals
    +Horror Zombies from Crypt (Millenium) Battle evil creatures in mansion
B    Hostages (Mindscape) - Rescue people at emmbassy - interesting
    +Hudson Hawk (Ocean) - Cat burgler steals things in museums; like movie
A-   Immortal (EA)-3D view arcade adventure to save wizard in dungeon below(2)
     Impossible Mission II (EPYX) Stop madman trying to take over world
    +Indiana Jones & Last Crusade (Lucas) - 3 mini-adventures from film
C    Indiana Jones & Temple of Doom - Free children from thugies
     It Came From the Desert (Cinemaware)-Report,find & kill big alien ants(3)
     It Came From the Desert II - Second scenario - 10 years later (3)
    +James Pond (Millenium)-Underwater game-collect keys to free lobsters
D+   Joe Blade - Rescue 6 world leaders
C-   Journey to the Center of the Earth - Arcade adv inside volcano (2)
    +Killing Cloud(Vector) Fly craft,interogate suspects,find cloud source (2)
     King of Chicago (Cinemaware)-Battle Capone gang to control Chicago (2)
     Kristal ( )-Space pirate hunts for gem (4)
C   +Last Ninja II (System 3) 3D view - ninja fighting - puzzles?
    +Last Ninja III (System 3) Ninja fighting 3D isometric view (2)
    +Leander (Psygnosis) Rescue princess-collect objects to progress levels(3)
     Livingston II (Operasoft) - Arcade adv in African jungle-traps, etc.
     Magician (Loricel) - Magician in house, object? How play? (PAL)
    *Man from Council -Turn off asteroid sewage plant
     May Day Squad (Tynesoft) - Arcade adv to rescue - slow
     Mean Streets (US Gold) - Solve mystery in S.F. - have skimmercraft (2)
    +Mercenary 3(Novagen)3D travel to moons & planets to stop evil miner's plan
     M O T - boy & dragon wandering around house - object??? (2)
    +Monty Python Flying Circus (Virgin) - Wierd, object find 5 brain parts
     Munsters - Arcade adventure in mansion - object??
     Murder (US Gold) - Solve mystery in 3D view mansion
     Mystical (Infogrames)-Collect lost spells and use them to defend yourself
    +Navy Moves - hunt for something in submarine - 2nd part OK
C-  +Neverending Story II ( ) - follows movie plot - object?
     Night Breed (Ocean) - Interactive Gr Adv in graveyard & countryside (2)
     Night Dawn (Magic Bytes) - Explore space complex & kill - object?
     Night Hunter (Ubi-Soft) - Dracula in castle - lots of enemies
     Nishiran - In 3D complex - kill droids -use parts to build weapons?
     Olympus ( ) Arcade adv with D & D characters (2)
B   +Ork (Psygnosis) Machine must penetrate alien base- shoot & puzzles(2)
B   +P.P. Hammer (  ) - Archologist searches for treasure with jack hammer 
C-  *Pandora - Arcade adv - find out why people died on space station
A-  +Prince of Persia (Broderbund) - Search for princess, great animation
     Raffles (aka Devon Aire)(EPYX) -Search for jewels in 3D mansion
B-  +Remix Ninja (Syestem 3) - Ninja battles his enemies on island (3)
     Rescue ( ) Find and rescue president - 3D landscape
C+   Return to Atlantis (EA) - Search for treasure in sea - 3D view (2)
B-   Road Raider (Mindscape) - Hunt down mutants - killer gangs & cars
A-   Rocket Ranger (Cinemaware) - Save world from Hitler's scientists (2)
     Satan (Dynams) - Fight Satan with axe - spells & teleport - how play??
D    Savage (  ) - 3 separate games - First mindless killing
    +Seven Gates of Jambala - Arcade adv - object??
A-   Shadow of the Beast(Psygnosis)-Explore caverns & castle- avoid traps (2)
A-   Shadow of the Beast II (Psygnosis)-  (2)
    +Simpsons-Bart vrs Space Mutants(  )-Bart saves planet-spray paint aliens
     Sinbad & Throne of Falcon (Cinemaware) -Epic seafaring quest (2)
    *Slaygon (Microdeal) - Robot in building maze- destroy computer
     Space Station - Arcade adventure in space station - object???
C+   Spy vrs Spy (1st Star)-Comical Mad Magazine adv-Find secret plans at base
    *Spy vrs Spy II - Island Caper - Find rocket plans & escape by submarine
    *Spy vrs Spy III - Arctic Antics - Build rocket from parts to escape cold
     Star Blaze (Similaris)-Fly ship to planet & fight droids.
    +Stormlord (Hewson) In underground maze - kill things - object??
     Stryx (Psygnosis) - In space station, no weapon, object??? (2)
C-  +Super Wonderboy (Activision) - Arcade adv - object??
B    Terropods (Psynogis) - Trade with aliens, shoot attackers; hard
D    Terramex - Arcade adventure to find professor
     The Colony (Mindscape)-Space marshal rescues survivors in 6 level colony
     Theme Park Mystery (Imageworks)- Adventure in amusement park
B    Three Stooges (Cinemaware) - Earn money to save orphanage - cute (2)
     Thunderbirds (Grandslam)- Mission in a mine - object? how play?? (2)
     Time ( ) - Have lab in space ship - object??? (2)
B    Time Bandits (Microdeal) - 16 seperate lands;some complete advs
     Time Machine (Activision)-Must fix time in various zones to assure future
D+   Timerunner (Redrat) - Search for things in house
D+   Time Traveler Fighter - buying & running fighting ship, object? (PAL)
B+  +Toki (Ocean) - Gorilla rescues girl
     Tom & Ghost (Ubisoft) - Boy helps ghost rescue someone in castle
     Torvak the Warrior (Core) - Search for ??? Guy has ax to fight with (2)
    *Total Eclipse - Explore 3D pryamid for Shrine of Ra and destroy it
     Tower of Babel (Rainbird) -Help robots complete tower - a puzzle
     Treasure Island - cute adventure on island , object??
     Treasure Trap ( ) - Diver searches for treasure in 3D underwater complex
D+   Tusker (System 3) - Guy with pistol searches for something in desert?
    +Unreal (Ubisoft) - Arcade adv on flying dragon- some 3D stages (3)
B    Voodoo Nightmare (Palace) Set in jungle-find pins in temple to stop curse
B-   Wierd Dreams (Rainbird) - Arcade adv in bizarre world - difficult
    +Wrath of the Demon (Readysoft)- Save kingdom from demon's minions (5)
B-   Xybots - 3D shoot-em-up in building maze (up to two players)
    +Zombi (Ubisoft) - Multi-character adv in building full of zombies

	PUNCH, KICK, & SWORD FIGHT GAMES 

C   +Altered Beast(SEGA) Man transforms during fights with wierd creatures(2)
D   *Artura ( ) - Wander around castle - kill men with axe
C+  *Barbarian - Two player sword fight game
B-   Barbarians II - Sword fight 18 alien creatures then enter dungeon (2)
B    Budokan (EA) - Practice & compete in karate, bo, kendo & nunchaku (2)
     Chop & Drop (Activision)
D   +Darkman (Ocean) - Mindless beat-em-up - object??
    +Deathbringer (Empire) Guy armed with a sword on a quest (2)
B-   Double Dragon - fight criminals in the streets-good for 2 players
     Double Dragon II - More fighting criminals - rescue girlfriend (2)
    +Double Dragon 3 - more beat-em-up, buy weapons, find valuable stones (2)
     Dr. Doom's Revenge (Paragon) -Spiderman adventure- defeat robots (2)
D+   Dynamite Duks - cute duck hits & kills enemies - get new weapons
     Dynasty Wars - Guy on horse fights an army
    +Golden Axe (Sega) - Guy kills enemy with axe - mindless
D   *Hong Kong Phooey ( ) - Dog beats up lots of enemies
C   *International Karate ( ) - Two player competition
    +Ivanhoe - Guy with sword & shield battles enemies, some in trees above
C+   Karate Kid II (Microdeal) - karate game
     Knight Force (Titus) - Sword fight game & obstacle terrain
     Moonstone (Mindscape) Knight searches for moonstone-fights creatures (3)
C+  *Ninja Mission - Karate type game in multi-room temple
     Ninja Spirit - Mindless scrolling ninja game - various weapons
    +Ninja Warriors (Virgin)- Fight enemies with ninja weapons - scrolls (3)
D    Operation Clean Streets (Broderbund) - Fight drug dealers
     Oriental Games (Microstyle) karate & kendo competion
     Panza Kickboxing (Futura) - Kickboxing contest (2)
     Rambo III - Rescue colonel from enemy in building
D    Renegade (Taito) - Difficult street thugs game
D+   Running Man - Like movie need to escape from & kill enemies (2)
D+  +Skull & Crossbones ( ) - Sword fight enemies for treasure (PAL)
B-  +Strider (Capcom) - Atletic man fights things with curved blade
    +Strider II (Capcom) - Further adventures
C   +Sword of Sodan (Discovery) - Sword fight game with huge men (4)
C-   Targen - Sword fight game in caverns
C    Teenage Mutant Hero Turtles - Turtles battle enemies in sewers
D   *Thundercats - Guy kills with sword - horiz scrolling (2)
D   *Vixen - Lady with a whip kills things

	CLIMBING & or JUMPING GAMES (PLATFORM GAMES)

    +Apprentice (Rainbow Arts - Super Mario Bros - clone
C-   Axel's Magic Hammer - Rescue gilfriend - destroy blocks with hammer
C   +Aunt Arctic Adventure - platforms & ladders game - impossible rescue game
    +Baby Jo (Loricel) - Cute baby must survive on his own in the country
    +Batman - The Movie - Combo driving & fighting on platforms (2)
    *Black Lamp (Firebird) - Creature in cave with ladders - object??
    +Black Magic - platforms & ladders game - object??
   +*Blinkey's Scary School - ghost in castle, platform game
B   +Blues Brothers (Titus)- Search buildings for missing musical instruments
     Boing the Game ( )Escape underground system of platforms & teleporters(2)
C-   Bubble Bobble (Firebird)- platform,ladders-kill guys with bubbles
C-   Burgerman ( ) Platform game-run over hamburger parts to make fall-enemies
B   +Car Vup (Core) - Cartoon car saves cartoonland from evil guy
D+   Chubby Gristle (Grandslam) - Climbing ladder type game
D+  *Chuckie Egg - Platform ladders - collect eggs
    *Count Duckula - Wander around castle - object?
D   +Danger Castle (Kunertsoft) - platfoms & ladders - object??
B-   Drol (Broderbund) - Rescue kids & mother from creatures
   +*Elephant Antics (Codemasters)-Elephant on platforms & ladders-object? PAL
    +Elf (Ocean) - Rescue girl - buy & use spells on enemies
   +*Fantasy World Dizzy - In cave, pick up & use objects to aid exploration
    +Fire & Brimstone (Microprose) Journey thru Hel to rescue Norse princess 
    +Flimbo's Quest (System3) - Guy collects money on ladders
     Fuzzball (System 3) Paltform game - kill fuzzballs-collect loot PAL(3)
     Ghouls & Ghosts (Capcom) - Battle ghouls in cemetary - 5 levels (2)
     Ghosts & Goblins (Capcom) - Battle ghosts in cemetary
A   +Great Gianna Sisters - Like Super Mario Brothers - nearly perfect clone
C    Hard & Heavy (Reline) - Super Mario Bros clone
     Harlequin (Gremlin) - Scrolling platform game in giant clock tower (2)
    +Ice Runner( )Loderunner clone-Ice block platforms-guys chasing you (PAL)
     Impossamole (Gremlin) - Platform game on 5 islands - battle nasties
   +*Kid Gloves (Logotron) - climbing jumping game in forest
    +Kid Gloves II ( ) Platform game on six islands - object rescue princess
C    Larry - Like Mappy - climbing jumping game - collect things
     Lupo Alberto (Idea) - Mario Brothers style game - object?
    +Mad Professor Moriarity - platform & ladders - collect coins
    +Mega Twins (US Gold) - Platform game on land, in sky & underwater
    *Magicland Dizzy (Codemasters)(PAL) - Rescue girl, use found objects
A   +Magic Pockets(Bitmap)Platform game,collect magic toys&use to trap monsters
C-   Mickey Mouse (Gremlin) - Children's climbing ladder type game
D+   Mission Elevator - kill spies in building - ride elevator
    +Monster Business ( ) Kill enemies by inflating them- collect tools (PAL)
    *Mousetrap - Climbing ladder type game
B+   New Zealand Story ( )-Cute Super Mario Bros clone - rescue Kiwi relatives
     Night Shift (US Gold) - Keep toy factory machine working - puzzles
     Nine Lives (Arc) - Platform game with cat; recue girlfriend - difficult
B-  *Popman - PD version of Loderunner - also construction set
    +Prehistoric Tales ( ) Collect dinosaur eggs on platforms - object?
    +Prehistorik (Titus) Caveman kills dinosaurs for food (PAL)
     Prophecy-The Viking Child (Electro Zoo)-Search for family in 16 lands(3)
     Quest for Agravain (Codemasters)(PAL) Search for fountain of youth
    +Quick & Silva ( ) Platform game - collect gems (PAL)
    +Rainbow Islands ( ) - Make rainbows to leap ledges - collect things
B+ +*Rick Dangerous - Find treatures in booby trapped pryamid
     Rick Dangerous II (Core) - stop aliens - lots of puzzles
    +Robocod(aka J.Pond2) (Millenium) Defeat Dr. Maybe's evil toys in his lair
    +Rodland (Sales Curve) Cute platforms & ladders game-battle nasties 
    +Rolling Ronny (Starbyte) - Guy on skates - object??
    +Scooby &Scrappy Doo (HiTech) Dog fights nasties on ship & islands (2)
    +Spellbound (Psycalpse) Collect treasure - platform game
     Spellfire ( ) - Platform game - collect spells ; How use them?
    +Spherical - Jumping game - get treasures build platforms
C+  *Targis (Incognito) - Collect spheres,avoid enemies on platforms
    *Terry's Big Adventure -kill things with yo-yo - find treasure
    *Treasure Island Dizzy (Codemasters) - On island - find treasure
B-  +Twin Worlds (Ubisoft) - Boy in cute world - shoot enemies	
    *Vampire Empire - climbing ladder game in cave
D+   Wizard's World ( ) - Platform game - creatures chasing you; object?
     Wizmo (Kingsoft) -in cave, platforms etc.-shoot at things -object?

	ROLLING MARBLE & BOUNCING BALL GAMES

C+  +Airball - Search 300 rooms for spellbook, enemies, rolling ball has leak
B+  *Arkanoid (Discovery) - improved Breakout
     Arkanoid 89 (Discovery) - with 33 more screens
B+  *Arkanoid - Revenge of Doh - super Arkanoid
D-  *Crillion - bounce ball to knock out blocks - terrible    	
C-  *Crystal Hammer II- Arkanoid clone
D   *Giganoid (Starvision) - Arkanoid clone
C-  *Hot Shot - Sort of combination breakout & catch game with two men
    *Impact - Arkanoid clone
C-   Incredible Shrinking Sphere - roll ball around maze; object??
C    Jinks - Wierd horiz scrolling breakout style game (2)
    +Kryton Egg - Arkanoid style game
     Light Corridor(Infogrames)Bounce ball down 3D corridor while move forward
     Lords of War (Digital Concepts)-old Warlords game - protect castles
     Magic Marble - Roll ball around to trip things - wander maze
A-   Marble Madness (EA) - Roll ball through 3D screens
     Mind Roll (EPYX) - Roll ball around mazes?
     Pinball Dreams (Digital Illusions) 4 vertical scrolling pinball games (2)
D    Pinball Magic (Loricel) - pinball (PAL)
     Pinball Wizard (Kingsoft) pinball construction set? (PAL)
D  +*Platou (Kingsoft) -Bounce ball on grid; blocks disappear beneath
     Popup ( ) Clear objects in grid with bouncing balls
     Power Pinball 1.1 (Karmasoft) - Pinball construction set (2)
     Quicksilver Pinball (Actionworks) - 4 pinball configurations - good sound
     Rock n' Roll - Roll marble, find keys, etc.
C+   Time Scanner - Scrolling pinball game
C   *Transputer - Wierd breakout type game with orthoganal viewpoint
D   *Vector Ball (Mastertronics) - Player kicks a ball on 3D grid
B- +*Wizball - Guide bouncing ball
D    Zero Gravity - 2 player splilt screen 3D pong

	MAZE & DIGGING ARCADE GAMES

     Baby Bug (  ) - Maze game with bugs chasing you
C   *Bone Crusher - In maze - multi-level - collect things etc.
     Boulderdash Construction Set (Kingsoft) - Collect jewels by tunneling
C-   Cruncher Factory (Kingsoft) - Pacman clone
     Dr. Fruit - Old Mr. Do game - collect fruit in tunnels
D   +Dynablaster ( )Kill enemies & find hidden exit in mazes with bombs-boring
     Emerald Mines II - Boulderdash clone, construction set (2)
   +*Fast Food ( ) Maze game-collect food- things chase you
     Footman - Pacman clone
C-   Herbie's Dugger - Dig Dug clone
A    Pacmania (Grand Slam) - 3D Pacman - scrolling playfield
B-   Rockford (Arcadia) - Boulderdash type game
     Supaplex (Digital Integration) - Like Boulderdash but with more options
D   *Super Sucker II - Maze game - collect pieces of puzzle

	TOON STYLE ARCADE GAMES

     Duck Tales (Disney) - Hunt for treasure against bad guys (2)
D   *Fred Flintstone - Paint walls but distracted by baby - stupid
D+   Garfield (Sortek) - Find & help girfriend - eat food on way
D    Garfield II - Ski slalom course
     Hare Raising Havoc (Disney)Help Roger escape 6 scenes to reach baby (6)
     Pink Panther - arcade adventure - goal ???
D+   Roger Rabbit (Disney) - Save Toonville from Judge Dread (2)
     Snoopy - Arcade adventure style game - object??
C-   Tom & Jerry - Mouse avoids cat ; object??
D   *Yogi & Greed Monsters ( ) - Yogi Bear wanders around & collects things


	PUZZLE & STRATEGY GAMES

C+   Adept (EA) - Archon II - sequel
A    Archon (EA) - Like chess but D&D characters (Not on 2000)
D+   Atomino (Psygnosis) - Build molecules with valance atoms
B   *Blockout (Calif Dreams) - like Tetris drop blocks from above
     Bombuzal (Imageworks) - Defuse bombs on grid
     Boston Bomb Club (Silmaris) Guide ball around by rotating blocks on grid
    +BRAT (Imageworks)-Keep boy on pathway out of trouble; lots of puzzles(2)
     Builderland (Loricel) - Move blocks around to help girl in journey
A-   Chip's Challenge (US Gold) Solve puzzles to collect computer chips
    +Clik Clak ( ) Place gears to make machine run - enemies & time limit
B    Clown O Mania-Arcade puzzle on 3D grid -collect dots on 70 levels-enemies
B-  *Deflecktor - Line up laser beams -object to clear screen of orbs?
    +Devious Designs (Imageworks) Platform game,move blocks-complete puzzle(2)
     Dino Wars (Digitek) - Dinosaurs battle on chess board (2)
D    Dragon Cave - Push chests around to cover specified blocks-Play 2D mode!
B    Fool's Erand (Miles) - 50 Puzzles of all types (2)
     Hacker (Activision)-Trade with spys in cities for secret paper (1.1 only)
    *Hacker II (Activision) - Break into security system?
A+  +Lemmings (Psygnosis)-Save lemmings by tunneling, bridge building, etc.(2)
     Lemmings 2 (Psygnois) - 100 more game levels
C    Logical (Rainbow Arts) -colored rolling balls are guided into disk slots
    *Mirror Magic -improved version of Deflektor with construction set
D+   Nevermind (Psygnois) - Weird 3D game to complete jigsaw puzzle-difficult!
    *Norse Gods ( ) - Tetris style game with gems-match 3 gems in row in pile
    +Pick 'N Pile (Ocean) - Control piles of blocks-matching two erases them
    *Pipe Dreams (LucasGames) - Construct pipe from puzzle pieces
     Plotting (Ocean) - Knock out blocks in pile
    *Pongo - Push barrels around maze - try to put on assigned squares
     Power-The (Demonware)-Slide guy around maze to collect hearts & met girl
C+   Prospector - Collect balloons in puzzle oriented mazes
    +Puzznic (Ocean) - Match colored shape blocks
     Ra (Rainbow Arts) - Match tiles but strategy required - how play??
    +Revalation (Krisalis) Turn colored knobs to open safe & loot.
    *Snake Pit (Incognito) -Snake gets longer as eats dots in maze
B+  +Spindizzy Worlds (Electric Dreams) - Solve puzzle to escape each world
     Stack Up ( ) Like Tetris -falling food -pieces shift rather than rotate
D    Swap ( ) - Combine colored blocks to clear board
C    Tetra Quest (Microdeal) - Solve puzzles & collect coins on a grid
C+   Tetris III (SpectrumHolobyte) - pile up falling blocks for max density
     Tetris III -Faces ( ) falling blocks are manuvered to form faces
     Tetria Mania -Blockout, Tetris, Tetris II, Quattro, Yatc, TetraMettalica
    *Tube Madness ( ) Connect pipes - time limit

	MISCELLANOUS ARCADE GAMES

C    Aarg (Arcadia) - Play monster and destroy village
    +A.P.B. - drive car around and arrest criminals
D    Arachnophobia (Disney) Kill spiders with bug spray in houses (2)
    +Back to Future II (Imageworks)-Segments from movie; hoverboard, etc.
C   +Back to Future III(Imageworks)-Segments from movie;rescue buckboard, etc.
     Bar Games (Accolade) Shufflepuck, wet T-shirt contest, bar dice, etc.(2)
D   +Bubble Ghost (Accolade) - Blow bubbles around 36 rooms - avoid traps
     Buffalo Bill (Tynesoft) - compete in cowboy sports (2)
C-   Circus Games - Tightrope Walk, Trapeze, Lion Tamer, Horseback (2)
D+   Combat Course - Compete in & design army obstacle training courses
D    Disc (Loricel) - Hurl discs at each other to knock off platform
D   *Drip Game - fix pipes while creatures chase you
D    Dr. Plummer's House of Flux (Microillusions) Rescue with thruster ship
D   *Eco (Denton) - Vector game on planet - survive against predators
C-   Eskimo Games (Magic Bytes)- Snowball fight,igloo building, etc.
B-   Fiendish Freddy's Bigtop (Mindscape)- cute circus games (3)
     Flood (Bulldog)- Cavern flooding - collect things
D+   Fright Night (Microdeal) - In house; find & kill people to live
D-  *Frostbyte ( )- move slinky- object??
     Future Basketball (Hewson) - Robots play basketball - overhead view
     Future Classics (Live) - 4 games; 3D Tetris, 3D maze, etc
     Game of Harmony(Accolade)aka E-Motion-Use a trust sphere to destroy balls
     Ghostbusters II (Activision) - Like movie - 3 parts (2)
     Globulus (Interprise)-Collect things on grid, set bombs, flip board over
     Grand National ( ) Horse racing (2)
C-   Grand Slam Monsters (Grandslam) -Throw things at opponent?
D+   High Steel - Build building with bricks & girders
     Home Alone (Accolade) Set traps and avoid getting caught by robbers (2)
C-  +Hugo ( ) - Collect gold in mine & try to exit alive - cute;in Danish (3)
    +Hugo II ( ) - Ride train and get to top of mountain; nice animation (5)
    +Jumping Jackson (Infogrames) - On grid-put records in juke box
     Leo - like Pengo where you slide blocks to crush enemies
     Magic Serpent (  ) - Snake collects food in maze - gets longer (PAL)
     Mighty Bombjack (Elite) - Jump & collect bombs - avoid enemies
D   *MOTH ( ) - Collect dots - snake gets longer
C+  *Mr Do Run (Electrocoin) Collect cherries, surround enemy on grid
C   *Mr. Tengus Adventure - Q-Bert clone
   +*Mr. Tengus II - More advanced Q-Bert style game - bounce on grid
C- +*Nebulus(Hewson)-aka Tower Toppler - Try to climb rotating tower
     Nebulus II (21st Century) Climb rotating tower- many traps; difficult(4)
    +Neighbors (Impulse) Skate board racing on streets
D+   Oxxonian - Move like blocks together - buy weapons to kill things
C+  +Paperboy (Elite) - Deliver papers-avoid obstacles on sidewalks & street
C    Power Stryx ( ) - Qix clone but with added features
D    Projectyle - Multi-playfield scrolling knock puck in goal
D    Purple Saturn Day (EPYX) - Compete in 4 futuristic space games
C-  *Qix - Draw rectangles to create territory before Qix gets you
    *Quix Snax (Codemasters) - Pengo clone - squash enemies with sliding ice
C    Rampage (Activision) - Monster destroys city buildings-helicopter enemy
D    Raster Bike - Split screen surround game
C-   Real Ghostbusters - Catch ghosts on rooftop buildings - coin-op version
C    Shufflepuck Cafe (Broderbund) - Air hockey game against alien opponents
     Skidz - kid on skateboard or BMX - collect money ??
     Sky Cabbie (Kingsoft) Flying taxi cab takes people to destinations (2)
     Sphercule (US Gold) - Use a thrust sphere to destroy balls - wierd
C-   Spidertronics -Spider on multi-level 3D grid with blocks- object?
    +Stormball (Millenium)-Opponents on hoverboard toss ball across tiles-3D
     Super Skweek (Loricel) - Paint all blocks on level - avoid nasties (2)
    *Tech (Gainstar) - Surround style game
C-   Toobin - Slalom raft course on river
     Toyottes - Mouse in house eats cheese-travel thru pipes - enemies
     Triple X - Multi-room Pengo like clone - enemies chase you
     Volfied (Taito) - Souped up version of Qix - drag line to from retangles
     Vortex (Visionary) - Prevent objects from entering space Vortex
     Wipeout - 3D surround game - players on skateboard - avoid walls
     Window Wizard (Reline) - Wash windows - avoid falling things - stupid
D+  *Zoom (Discovery) - Color blocks on grid by drawing lines around them

	WEIRD ARCADE GAMES

     Alpha Waves (  ) - 3D game - bounce around colored rooms - strange!
     Captain Blood(Mindscape)-Interogate aliens to find five clones on planets
     Knights of Crystallion (Terrific) - 4 games - 1 good one ;rest object?
D    Limes & Napoleon - Pick up crystal and deposit elsewhere ???
D    Mad Show - Wierd TV game show with arcade sequences
B    Mindwalker (Commodore) - strange game inside brain
    *Sentinel!-The Sentry-3D landscape-absorb energy from trees -make robot
	
	RACE  GAMES  (CARS & 4 WHEELS ONLY)

     Badlands (Domark) - Overhead racing on closed track
B   *Buggy Boy (Elite) - Dune Buggy racing on various tracks
     Celica GT (Gremlin) - Cross country road rally on three courses
     Championship Run (Vector) - Car racing around tracks - 3D view
    +Champion Driver (Ideasoft) Overhead scrolling racing - difficult to steer
     Checkered Flag Rally (Realsim)-Oversize scrolling track- car slides turns
     Combo Racer (Gremlin) - Sidecar racer - can desigh own tracks
     Continetal Circus (Mastertronic)- Nice Pole Position style game
     Crazy Cars II (Titus)
     Cycles (Accolade) - Motorcycle racing
    *Days of Thunder (Mindscape) - Race game - 3D view out of car; difficult
A-   4D Sports Driving [Stunts](Mindscape)Stunt driving & construction kit(2)
     Fastlane - Racing on many tracks - view inside car
     Ferrari Formula One Racing (EA) - Design race car & race like Pole Pos.
A    Formula One Gran Prix (Microprose) 3D simulator on various tracks (4)
     Gran Prix Circuit (Accolade) - View from car, also track map indicator
B    Hard Drivin II (Domark)- Race & stunts - 5 courses & construction set
A    Indianapolis 500 (EA) - 3D view from car
     Ivan Stewart's Super Offroad (Virgin)-Race over rough terrain on track
     Jupiter Masterdrive (Ubisoft) Overhead scrolling track - shoot opponents(2)
     Kart n Go - Overhead racing game
B    Lotus Turbo Challenge (Gremlin)Split screen racing (Doesn't restart race
A   +Lotus Turbo Challenge II - Split screen racing game-various terrain
D+  +Moonshine Racers (Millenium)- Deliver moonshine & outrun police-cute (2)
     NASCAR Challenge (Romm) - 3D view NASCAR race car game
    *Nigel Mansell's Gran Prix Racing
B+   Nitro (Psygnosis) Overhead 4 way scrolling racing with obstacles & pickups
C+   Outrun (Sega) - Race like pole position
    +Outrun Europa (Sega) Racing thru Europe cities (2)
C    Powerdrift (Activision) - Car racing on tight twisty courses (2)
C    Run the Gauntlet (Ocean) Overhead scrolling rough terrain course (2)
    +Street Rod II (Calif Dreams) Drag race on city streets (2)
A-   Stunt Car Racer (Microdeal) - Race on stunt track
B    Super Cars (Gremlin) - Overhead scrolling track (2)
A   +Super Cars II(Gremlin)-Overhead scroll track-cars armed with weapons(2)
     Super Monaco G.P. (US Gold) - Race course in Monaco
     Test Drive II(Accolade) -Car driving game on different racetracks
C    Turbo Cup - Race like Pole Position but view much higher
C    Turbo Outrun (U.S. Gold) - 
B+  +Vroom (Lankhor) - Race car on tracks, View from behind - fast graphics
D+   4 x 4 Off Road Racing (EPYX) - dune buggy racing

        RACE GAMES (NON CARS)

D+   Air Rayelle - Race game in plane around pylons
B    Gran Prix 500 II (Microids) - Split screen motorcycle racing
     Harley Davidson (Mindscape) Motorcycle racing
     Harricanna (Loricel) - Snow sled racing
     Heat Wave (Accolade) - Power boat racing
     Hot Rubber (Palace) - Motorcycle racing, course on bottom, map on top(2)
    *Kickstart II - Dirt bike racing - horizontal scrolling
D+   Master Gran Prix - Bike racing - overhead scrolling view
C+   Powerdrome (EA)- Race around 3D banked tracks - difficult to fly 
     Ruf Honda - Motorcycle racing	
     Scramble Simulator - Dirt bike obstacle course
D+   Space Racer - Race game on airborne cycle
A   +Super Hang On (Sega) - Motorcycle racing
B+   Team Suzuki (Gremlin) - Motorcycle racing - like a 3D flight sim.
     Ultimate Ride (Mindscape) - 3D Motorcycle - difficult to balance (2)

		SPACE & SHOOT -'EM-UP ARCADE GAMES

	SPACE SHIP, CARS & AIRCRAFT SHOOT-'EM-UP - Scroll vert & horiz.

   +*Action Fighter - Vert scrolling Spy Hunter clone
     Air Supply (Magic Bytes) - vert scrolling shoot-em-up
    +Amnios (Psygnosis)4 way scrolling shoot-em-up against enemy creatures(2)
    +Apida ( )(PAL) Horiz scroll shoot-em-up, Flying bee battles insects (2)
     Aquanaut (  ) - Underwater shoot-em-up (3)
     Argonaut ( ) - Shoot-em-up in scrolling complex - buy weapons, object??
D+  +Awesome (Psygnosis) - Clear out sectors of eneemies & asteroids (2)
    +Battle Squadron - Vertical scrolling shoot-em-up
     Battlestorm ( ) - 4 way scroll shoot-em-up over defended territory
A-  +Blood Money (Psygnosis) Great shoot-em-up; buy weapons (2)
     Bomber Bob - Vert scroll shoot-em-up, plane can shoot or bomb
    *Cash Crisis - Horiz scroll like Scramble
     Crackdown (US Gold) Shoot at robots in complex -set bombs?
   +*Cybernoid - Helicopter shoot-em-up underground - 4way scroll
C    Datastorm - Defender clone (*Not on my 1000)
    *Defender II (Arc)-3 versions of classic game to defend Earth from aliens
     Detectors (Timewarp)-Fly around scrolling landscape - pick up things (2)
    +Delta Run ( ) Helicopter mission -initally unarmed -difficult- object? 
     Dyter-07 (Reline)-Horiz scroll - rescue scientists with helicopter
    +Executioners (Hawk) With thrust ship search planets for rebel leader (2)
    +Fantastic Voyage(Centar)Ship fight cells in blood stream to reach brain(3)
C    Fire Power (Micro Illusions) - One or two player tank game
D    Flying Shark (Firebird) - Vert scrolling shoot-em-up with planes
D    Forgotten Worlds -Mindless shoot-em-up in cavern (2)
     Fortress - Helicopter rescue in cave
D    Fusion (EA) - Shoot-em-up on planet - 4 way scroll
     Future Shock (AmigaFun) - Fly around cavern - kill dinosaurs; object?
     Future Tank - one or two player tank game - object ??
     Gravity Force - Thrust ship around in cave - object???
D-  *H.A.T.E. - Fly over armed city like Zaxxon but terrible
    +Hunt for Red October(Grandslam)(PAL)-Navigate sub thru horiz scroll field
B+   Hybris (Discovery) - Vert scrolling shoot-em'-up
     Intact - Vert scroll shoot-em-up over target space complex
D  +*Jaws - Underwater kill sharks
C+   Jug (Microdeal)-Mindless shoot-em-up in cavern-get better weapons
C   +Katakis - Hard horiz scrolling shoot-em-up - R Type clone
    +Last Duel - Vertical scrolling car shoot-em-up
   +*Led Storm - Vertical scrolling car game
     Licence to Kill - James Bond shoot-em-up - Vert scrolls
     Light Force - Attack reactor complex with tank - aim mirrors (2)
C   *Major Motion (Microdeal) - Spy Hunter clone
C+  +Menace (Ackerlight) - Horiz scrolling shoot-em-up in caves
     Mr. Heli (Firebird) - Horiz scrolling helicopter game (No SFA)
     Operation Harrier (US Gold)-Mission to bomb island - overhead view
D+   P-47 (Firebird) - Horiz scroll shoot-em-up
     Panadroid 90 (Hewson) - Shoot-em-up in space station
     Pegasus (Gremlin) - Horiz scroll shoot-em-up - Guy on flying horse (2)
    *Phobia - Horiz scrolling shoot-em-up in cave
D   *Photon Storm (ARC) - 4 way scrolling space shoot-em-up
D+ +*Plutos - Vertical scrolling shoot-'em-up
     Pro Powerboat Simulator - Vert scroll, boats fights enemies - lays mines
D   *Quartz - 4 way scrolling shoot-em-up at spheres-collect small ones
B-  +R-Type  - Horiz scrolling shoot-em-up
    +R-Type II (Activision) Horiz scroll shoot-em-up in tunnels
     Return of Jedi (Domark) - Shoot-em-up on cycle in forest
     Rotex (US Gold) - Shoot-em-up in space station (2)
     Saint Dragon (Stormsoft) Horiz scrolling shoot-em-up with flying dragon
D  +*Screaming Wings (RedRat)-Mindless vertical scrolling shoot-em-up
B   +Sidewinder - Great shoot-em-up over scrolling planet
A   +Silkworm - Good tense shoot-em-up with helicopter & or tank
D   +Sonic Boom (Activision) - Vert scrolling shoot-em-up over land & sea
    +Space Pilot 1989 (Kingsoft) - Mindless shoot-em-up - unfinished??
C+   Space Ranger - Rescue animals on planet - like Defender but cute
    +Spy Who Loved Me (Domark) 007 fights criminals in car, boat & underseas
    *Star Goose ( ) - Vert scroll shoot-em-up
    +SWIV (Storm)- Vert scroll shoot-em-up
C+  +Tasar - Hard version of Space Ranger but has cheat level
D    Thexter (Sierra) - Shoot-em-up. Man transforms into plane
D+   Thunderblade (U.S. Gold) - Helicopter arcade game
    +UN Squadron (Capcom) - Plane scrolling shoot-em-up
B   +Venus (Gremlin) Robot insect fights other insects (PAL) (2)
    *Venus - Metal insect jumps, walks on ceiling - shoot things - one level
C-   Vindicators (Tengen)- Tank shoot-em-up
D+   Vyper - Vertical space scrolling shoot-em-up - like Galaxian
D   *Whilleygig (Firebird) - space game against ships - 4 way scrolling
    +Wings of Death (Thalion) Vert scroll shoot-em-up - fight birds
    +Wings of Fury (Broderbund)-Horiz scrolling -fly plane bomb target
     X-Out - Underwater scrolling shoot-em-up (2)
D   *Xenon - Vertical scrolling shoot-em-up
C+  +Xenon II - Vertical scrolling shoot-em-up (2)
    +Z-Out (Rainbow Arts) - Scrolling shoot-em-up (PAL only) (2)
C-  +Zarathrusta (Hewson)-Fight Empire in planet's caverns with thrusing ship

	SPACE SHIP, CARS & AIRCRAFT - Single screen & scroll forward

C-   Afterburner (Sega) - Shoot down planes in front
C+   Albedo - Weird shoot-em-up -guy has shield, floats - rules??
D   *Ameoba Invaders - Classic space invaders
D   *Backlash - 3D mindless scrolling forward shoot-em-up
C+   Blasteroids - Asteroids type coin-op; rotating asteroids
D  +*Captain Fizz - Mindless shoot-em-up - two players split screen
     Chase HQ II (Ocean) - Hunt down criminals on highway (2)
D+   Cubemaster - somewhat like asteroids but objects do things if hit
     Deep ( ) - destroyer attacks underwater enemies - collect pods bottom
     Eagle Rider (Microids) - scroll forwrd shoot-em-up in asteroid belt (2)
C-   Ebonstar (MicroIllusions) - Knock enemies into black hole
    *Eliminator - Shoot-em-up on track that scrolls forward
D+   Galactic Conqueror - space shoot-em-up- nice (*Not on my 1000*)
    +Galaxy Force II (Sega) - like Afterburner - scroll forward
D    Hydra (Domark) -Scroll forward shoot-em-ip; boat on river (2)
D   *Live & Let Die - Motorboat on scrolling river - fight enemies
    +Mega Phoenix (Dinamic) - Attacking birds like Galaxian - coin-op
    *Mig 29 (Codemasters) - Mindless scroll forward shoot-em-up
    *Missile Command 91 - Protect cities from missile attack
     Operation Neptune - Fight guys undersea - stop arms dealer
    +Overlander (Elite) - Car scroll forward - shoot-em-up
C+  +Pang (Ocean)-Shoot at bouncing balls that split-lots of weapons (PAL)
     Pioneer Plague - Save planet from aliens - how play??
   +*Road Blasters - Shoot-em-up on race course
C+  *Road Wars (Arcadia) - Battle on 3D scrolling track
     SDI (Cinemaware) - Stop Russians from destroying SDI space system
D+   SDI (Actvision) - Shoot down enemy SDI stuff with satelite
     Shoot-em-up Construction Set - Create Galaxian style games (2)
    *Silver Eagle - Horiz scroll shoot-em-up, kill spaceships
     Sky Fox (EA) - Fly plane - attack ground tanks and planes in sky
     Sky Fox II (EA) - Combat now in space against alien ships
    +Smash TV (Psygnosis)Kill masses of opponents & collect prizes on TV show
C-  +Space Harrier (Sega) - Scrolls towards you - mindless shoot-em-up
     Space War (Odyessy) - Updated version of classic two-player game (2)
     Star Control (Accolade)-Space war game -have fleet of different ships(2)
B-   Stellar X (Laser Gamemanship) - Souped up asteroids
D+   Stun Runner (Domark) - Race thru tunnels - shoot out obstacles
D   *Super Grid Runner (Llamasoft) - Mindless shoot-em-up
    +Super Space Invaders (Domark) Aliens attack your movable gun position (2)
D    Superman - Shoot-em-up with a flying Superman
     Tanx ( ) Two player artillery game-destroy player's tanks-Playfield big
     Tunnels of Armageddon (Calif Dreams) Travel thru tunnels - object??
    +Typhoon Thompson (Broderbund) - shoot-em-up ; find dagger
D   *Wicked (Electric Dreams) - Shoot-em-up, try to kill things

	TARGET SHOOT-'EM-UP

B   +Cabal (Ocean) - Shoot-em-up at enemy with joystick cursor
D+   Capone - Shoot at gansters in buildings - aim with mouse
     City Defense - Missile Command clone
D+   Crazy Shot - Shooting gallery game
     Creature (Actionware)- Kill aliens in moon complex-move thru complex (2)
D-  *Gun Shoot - shoot @ bank robbers entering bank
     Line of Fire (Sega) - kill targets that come towards you. 6 stages
    +Operation Thunderbolt (Ocean) - kill terrorists like Oper. Wolf (2)
B   +Operation Wolf - Rescue hostages - kill enemy soldiers & tanks (2)
C-   P.O.W. - Shoot-em'-up , kill things useing mouse aim
C+   Roller Coaster Rumbler(Tynesoft)-On coaster-shoot things in front
     Space Gun (Ocean) Rescue hostages, rid space station of aliens (2)
D+   Take em-out - Kill terrorists in building - must qualify first

	ACTUAL 3D SHOOT-'EM-UP

     A.G.E. ( ) - 3D game - object & how play?? (2)
    +Alianator ( ) (PAL) - 3D shoot-em-up in space above planet
     Aquaventure (Psygnosis) - 3D underwater shoot-em-up
C    Arctic Fox (EA) - 3D Tank game - defend south pole from alien invasion
    +Armour Geddon(Psygnosis)-Destroy enemy power plants powering death ray(2)
       Armour Geddon - Mission Disk
     Battle Command (Ocean) - 3D tank game - many missions
B-  *Carrier Command (Rainbird) - 3D attack game have multi-drones
    *Conqueror - 3D tank game - high view - keyboard control
     Cybercon III (US Gold) - Explore 3D complex and destroy robots
C+  *Empire Strikes Back - 3D vector coin-op shoot-em'-up
     Gunboat (Accolade) - patrol boat on the Vietnam rivers - 3D landscapes
D+   Heavy Metal (Access) - Tank game
    +Hunter( )-Undercover agent must assainate leader-search island for items 
     Infestation (Psygnosis) - Kill alien eggs - explore space complex
B   *Interphase - 3D game inside computer - destroy security system
     M-1 Tank Platoon (Microprose) - 3-D Tank warfare with 4 tanks & 16 men
     Magic Fly (EA) You are a bug in 3D tunnel shoot-em-up
     Matrix Mauraders (Psygnosis) Shoot-em-up on grid, 3D perspective - boring
D   *Mercenary (Datasoft) - 3D vector -shoot-em'-up with plane
B    Mid Winter (Rainbird) - Protect isle from intruders; ski&shoot in 3D game
     Resolution 101 (Astral) Hunt for criminals in 3D city
     Sherman M4 (Loricel) 3D tank game - drive down roadways object?
    +Simulcra (Microstyle) Fly over base- shoot down computer controlled craft
D+  *Sky Chase - split screen two player shoot enemy plane
B-  *Star Glider (Rainbird) - 3D shoot-'em-up - vector
A   *Star Glider II (Rainbird)- 3D solid fill shoot-em-up on many planets
C+  *Star Wars - 3D coin-op vector graphics
     Stellar 7 (Dynamix) - 3D tank game against aliens - like battlezone (3)
     Thunderstrike (Millenium) -shoot down enemy craft over planet
     Trex Warrior (Thalion) Fight droids in 3D arena -like Battlezone (mouse)
    *Vaxine (US Gold) Kill viruses before they kill cells
C   *Virus - Defend planet from virus spreading ships - 3D landscape
   +*Voyager - 3D shoot-em-up against aliens

	COMMANDO FIGHTER & CHARACTER SHOOT-'EM-UP

B-   Airborne Ranger (Microprose) -Commando style game - many missions
    +Alien Breed ()Rid space complex of aliens;mindless but good game(PAL)(3)
C-   Alien Legion - shoot-em-up on platforms - object?
    +Alien Storm (US Gold) Kill aliens with raygun in city - mindless (2)
C  +*Alien Syndrome (Softek) - Rescue people from aliens in station
   +*Army Moves - Horiz scrolling - guy kills enemies
    +Astro Marine Corp - Mindless shoot-em-up on alien planet, traps (2)
     Badlands Pete (Arc) - Sheriff wanders western town & shoots people
     Banzai (Sweedish Soft) Commando style game (2)
C+ +*Bionic Commando (Capcom) - Shoot-em'-up on platforms - have bionic arm
B-   Commando (Capcom) - Solider kills on scrolling course
    +Cyberblast (Innerprise) Collect pods, kill creatures, like Gauntlet
     Dan Dare 3 - Man in rocket suit flys around & kills things - object??
     Deathbots (Oddysey) - Like Berzerk - guy fights dozens of robots (2)
D    Dick Tracy (Titus) - Fight gangsters
D+   E-SWAT (Ocean) - Mindless scrolling - kill criminals (2)
B-   Escape from Planet of Robot Monsters-mindless kill robots- 3D complex
C-  *Fernando Must Die (Imageworks) - Soldier like Commando
C-  +Fly Fighter (DMS) Kill enemies, 5 levels, pirate ship, castle, etc.
B    Garrision II - Gauntlet clone; kill creatures, collect treasure (2)
A    Gauntlet II - kill hordes of creatures & collect treasure
D+   Gremlins (Elite) -Rid shopping mall of creatures with weapons-impossible
B- +*Ikari Warriors - Coin-op shoot-em'-up like Commando
    +Judge Dredd ( ) Bring criminals to justice
    +Killing Game Show (Psygnosis) - shoot way out of caverns Before flooded
C- +*Leatherneck (Microdeal) -Commando type game - vertical scroll
     Mercs (US Gold) - Scrolling commando shoot-em-up - rescue world leader
     Metal Mutants (Silmarlis)-Cyborg that can transform, fights enemy robots
    +Midnight Resistance(Ocean)Commandos rescue leaders from aliens 4way scroll
     Narco Police (Ocean) - Mindless kill criminals in scroll forward tunnels
    +Navy Seals (Ocean) - Commando shoot-em-up on platforms in buildings
    +Night Breed (Ocean) Explore & shoot-em-up in cemetary (2)
     N.Y. Warriors (Melborne) - Mindless kill thugs in N.Y.C. - scrolls (2)
     Obliterator (Psygnosis) - shoot aliens in scrolling complex
D+ +*Onslaught - Attack king's army - horiz scroll; ladders, etc.
     Persian Gulf Inferno ( ) - Battle terrorists on platforms
     Plague, The(Innerprise) Mindless kill mutated creatures with weapons (2)
    +Platoon (Ocean) - Kill Vietcong in jungle
D+   Predator (Activision) - Invisible alien hunts you in jungle (2)
B    Puffy's Saga (UBI) - Gauntlet style game with many differences
C-  *RoboCop (Ocean) - Kill criminals in old Detroit
B   +Robocop II (Ocean) - Kill criminals in old Detroit (2)
     Rogue Trooper (Kristalis) - Kill guys and some scroll-forward shooting
D+  *Rolling Thunder - Kill men in building
    +Shadow Dancer (US Gold)- Ninja & dog fight terroists & difuse their bombs
    +Sly Spy (Ocean) - Scrolling shoot-em-up, spy rescues people (2)
     Soldier 2000 - Arm soldier -kill terriosts in complex - rescue?? (2)
     Super Contra (Konami) - Soldier kills enemy - horiz scrolls
     Switchblade (  ) - Arcade adv - object??
    +Switchblade II (Gremlin)- knight explores underground to rid it of danger
C+   Techo-Cop (EPYX) - Arrest criminals in building - also driving
    +Terminator 2 (Ocean) Fight & flee sequences from movie (2)
     Time Soldier ( ) Vert scroll kill enemies in various time zones-mindless
     Total Recall ( ) - On Mars, kill aliens, object?? (2)
    +Turrican (Rainbow Arts)- Difficult quest over terrain -shoot at things(2)
    +Turrican II (Rainbow Arts) - sequel lots of killing
     Untouchables (Ocean) Kill rival gangs in warehouse (2)
D    Victory Road-Vertical scrolling shoot-em-up; fight aliens on ramp
    +Video Kid (Ocean) - Mindless shoot-em-up, cartoon character can fly
   +*War Machine - In cave with ladders - kill enemies?
    +War Zone (Core) - Commando style vert scrolling shoot-em-up
    +Warlock the Avenger (Millenium)-Like Gauntlet but can use spells & shoot
    +Wolfchild (Core) Rescue by boy who turns into wolfman-fight terrorist (2)
     Wreckers (Audiogenic) Patrol 3D space station & rid walls of Plasmodians
     Xenophobe (Medalist) Reclaim abandoned space complex from aliens (2)
    +Zone Warrior (EA) - Shoot enemies in various time zones (2)
	
		MISCELLANOUS ENTERTAINMENT

	BOARD GAMES

     Amiga Go - Oriental Board game
     Art of Go - Go boardgame
A    Battle Chess (Interplay) - 3D pieces fight - animated (2)
     Battle Chess II (Interplay) - Chinese Chess - 3D and animated (2)
C-  *Battleship (Elite) - Classic Battleship board game - see shots
     Checkmate (Interplay) - Chess 3D board - rated 2100
A    Chessmaster 2000 (EA) - 3D chessboard
     Chessmaster 2100 (Soft Toolworks) - 3D chesboard (2)
     Chessplayer 2150 - 3D chess board
     Chinese Checkers - public domain version of board game
     Clue (Virgin) - Detective board game in mansion - lots of suspects
     Distant Armies - Ten different historical chess games (not regular chess)
     Intelligent Strategy Games - Go, Bridge, Chess & Backgammon (2)
     Ishido (Accolade) Put tiles down according to rules of color & shape
     Kikugi (Imagetech) - Object to clear board of marbles
     Monopoly (Leisure Genius) - Real estate game
     Othello Master - Othello game; quite good
B+   Shanghai (Activision)Match tiles to remove from pile-uses Maj Jong tiles
     Spot the Dot (Virgin) - Board game like Othello but different rules-cute
     Stratego (Accolade) - Capture the flag game - based on board game
     The Ball Game (Elec Zoo) - Territorial board game - 4 players
     Thromulus (TTR Dev) - Conquer territory with pieces that jump
    *Triango - GO like game - capture pieces by forming triangles with moves

        CARD GAMES

     Bridge 6.0 (Artworx) - Classic 4 player card game
     Bridge Player Galactia - Contract bridge - keyboard only
     Cribage King / Gin King - Cribbage and gin rummy games
     Hoyle's Games (Sierra) - Hearts, gin rummy, crazy eights, etc.
     Hoyle's Games #2 (Sierra) - 20 solitaire games
    *Seahaven Towers - Solitare card game
B    Solitaire Royale (Spectrum Holobyte) - various card games

	MISC GAMES

     Astrology - Plot astrology charts (2)
     Courtroom - Decide cases??
D    Golden Oldies (EA) - Original Adventure, Eliza, Breakout
C   *Hex - Q Bert clone with strategy - not arcade
D+   Little Computer People (Activision)Care for guy living in computer
     Lost Dutchman's Mine (Mag Images) hunt & mine for gold-buy supplies
     Ractor (Mindscape) - talks back to you in stupid sentences
     Tarot Master - Tarot cards with nice graphics (2)

	MULTI-GAME DISKS (Listed elsewhere with * in front of name)

     Dizzyland Collection - Disk #1 - Magicland Dizzy / Fast Food / Quik Snak
        Disk #2 - Treasure Island Dizzy / Fantasy World Dizzy
     Arkanoid II / Charon 5 / Popman
     Wizball / Slaygon / Frostbyte / Mach / Rolling Thunder / Gunshoot
     Armagedon Man / Leatherneck / Screaming Wings
     Battleship / Backlash / Arkanoid / Ameoba Invaders
     Road Wars / Mercenary / Giganoid / Xenon / Time Bandits
     Barbarian / Wizball
     Star Wars / Kickstart II / Star Rays
     Helter Skelter / Academy / Cybernoid / Driller / Platou
     Plutos / Impact
     Buggy Boy / Sentry / Crystal Hammer II
     Chuckie Egg / Warhead / VectorBall / Vixen 
     Vampire Empire / Fred Flintstone / Eco / Hacker II / Norse Gods
     Zoom / StarGlider II / Ikari Warriors
     Black Lamp / Buggy Boy / Quartz / Seahaven Towers
     Hot Shot / Virus the Game
     Empire Strikes Back / Army Moves / Thundercats 
     Joe Blade II/ Eliminator/ Beyond Ice Palace/ Inertia Drive/BubbleBobble
     Jet / Flight Simulator II / Raider Raiders
     International Karate / Captain Fizz / Led Storm
     Wirleygig / Sky Chase / Carrier Command / Major Motion
     Alien Syndrome / Bionic Commando
     Amiga Soccor / Arkanoid II / Sorcery + / Transputer
     Live & Let Die / Deflektor / Action Fighter
     Road Blasters / Cybernoid II / Wicked
     4th & Inches/ Amiga Soccer/ Crillion / Hex / Soccer King
     Elephant Antics / Yogi & Greed Monsters / Missile Command 91 / Elf
     Robocop / Rick Dangerous
     Fernandez Must Die / Triango
     Qix / Jaws / Tower Toppler / Ruf Honda
     Total Eclipse / Darkside / Mr. Tengus Adventure / 3D Pool
     Mousetrap/ Bone Cruncher/ Nigel's Gran Prix Racing/ Sentinel/ Bloodwych
     Diplomacy / Phobia / Mirror Magic
     Paperboy / Rampage / Terry's Big Adventure / Pipe Dreams
     Targis / Snake Pit / Pandora
     Blockout / Man from Council
     Pipe Dreams / Arctic Adv(Spy vrs Spy II)/ Island Caper(Spy vrs Spy 3)
     Ninja Mission / Onslaught
     Venus / Dripgame / Mr Tengus II
     Kid Gloves / Starglider / Conqueror / Hammerfist
     Tech / Moth / H.A.T.E. / Nord & Bert
     Fast Break / Jocky Darts / Archipelagos / Classic Invaders
     Pongo / Damocles / Super Grid Runner / Tube Madness
     Days of Thunder / Blinky's Scary School
     Stunt Car Racer / Turtle Table Tennis / Interphase
     Typhoon Thompson / Cash Crisis / Super Sucker / Infestation / 5th Gear
     Vaxine / Mr Do Run / Hong Kong Phooey / Star Goose
     Voyager / Super Hang On
     Artura / Photon Storm / Count Duckula / Mig 29
     Defender II / Fantasy World Dizzy / Fast Food
     Pick n' Pile / Gazza II / Silver Eagle
     War Machine / Zeron / Llamatron

