




                             Fully Bugged Software

                                   Presents:





                                    D-Stroy

                              Amiga Yello Version
                                 ( June 1996 )








    I. The Beginning :
    ------------------

           Beware! This version is far for complete, and there are most
      probably bugs hiding at every corner, that's why  we  reject  any
      responsibility as of possible problems  that  this  software  may
      cause, even if we have been warned of the risks (screen explodes,
      harddisk crashes, windows 95 starts on your Amiga, etc.). But  if
      D-Stroy doesn't prevent your computer from operating, we hope you
      will enjoy this incredible, awesome, blablah, game of the century
      (as elected by FBS impartial jury in 1995 and 1996) :D
           We strongly encourage you to distribute this  demo  to  your
      friends and to your enemies (hoping it will dstroy their machine)
      and talk about it around you, and even further !

    II. What comes next
    -------------------

           This version being only 72% complete, we  will  quickly  fly
      above the deep and rich scenario without  which  an  arcade  game
      could hardly be played. Know that you'll have to help the Boodies
      to fight the formalism that is currently ruling the world, set up
      by the evil Meuries, and that you will use deadly bombs for  that
      purpose. The version also misses some important features that are
      still going to be implemented (hopefully :)


    III. Let's talk serious stuff
    -----------------------------

      More seriously, here are the Amiga version requirements :

        Minimum :

         - 68EC020 CPU
         - 2 Megs of CHIP RAM
         - AGA Chipset
         - 1.5 Meg of harddisk space
         - PAL or VGA screen (yes, game supports both)
         - Fingers controlling the keyboard, joystick or joypad
         - Brains in order to control the fingers

         That pretty much excludes non-AGA machines and people without
         fingers or brains, sorry.

        Recommended add-ons :

         - 68EC030 / 25 Mhz or faster
         - Fast RAM (4 Megs or more)
         - CD32 compatible joypad (supported by D-Stroy)

        Tested ok on A1200 with 68EC020/14Mhz, and 68030/50 Mhz,
        68030/50Mhz + 68882, A4000/030/25 with 6 MB RAM, A4000/040/25
        with 18 MB RAM. Not tested on 68060 CPUs so if you own one we
        would pretty much like to know if it works or not, and if not,
        what happens... Won't work on Amiga clones missing the custom
        chips (e.g. Draco) :)

        On an A4000/030 game runs at full frame rate with 5 audio
        tracks. On an A4000/040, even with 8 audio tracks, you
        won't notice any slowdown :)

        Doesn't clash operating system (but blocks it while running).
        Incredible! This is not a doom clone or racing game!
        Runs in 128 colors, full-screen action.
        Internal support for CD32 joypads (all buttons). Thanks who ?
        Internal support for VGA screens. Thanks who ?
        No explicit lyrics.
        Preserves the ozone layer.

        Seriously, if you distribute D-Stroy, please do it in its
        original form (two LHA archive unpacking to 10 files, including
        this readme)

      To be fair, you have to know  that  this  game  is  a  conversion
      of a game that curiously originated on PC (the PC  version  being
      not complete either :P, but for other reasons).  The  main  diffs
      between currently released PC "pouet" demo version (that you  can
      find on the Internet at ftp.cdrom.com, in /pub/msdos/games/arcade
      as DS_POUET.ZIP) are :

          . Multiplayer modes (Multiplayer adventure and tournament)
            are not yet implemented.

          . One or two bonuses are missing, anyway you wouldn't know
            their use (we don't either) :P

          . There are music and SFX! This is the big difference from
            the PC version where the players are still under dev;
            so you will discover D-Stroy cute music and SFX before
            your PC friends.. Note that the SFX are basically for
            testpurposes and are not the definitive ones, esp. the
            bonuses voices :) But music is what you will hear in
            final version. Note that the StoneTracker sound engine
            used to develop D-Stroy supports up to 8 audio tracks,
            so final version will let you choose from 4 to 8 tracks
            (up to 4 music tracks and 4 SFX tracks, probably).
            Currently, these setup options are not yet implemented and
            SFX engine is still under debugging, so you'll have to
            be happy with 4 tracks only (we done this on purpose not
            to put too much penalty on 68020 users)
      
          . This is not a crippled down shareware version! The Amiga
            version will be completely free of charge as we would make
            little profit from it anyway.. So you can play all levels -
            All levels are designed so you may basically start playing
            the whole adventure with this version!

          . There is a surprise at the very last level! Hardcore gamers
            defeat the Meuries and see it :)

      Changes from Spring version :

          . Ingame graphics changed in some levels. Check it out.
          . You now start up with 5 lives instead of 3, else it's hard.
          . Bug fixed : some bad mojos (e.g. 'slow' bonus) stayed when
            you got to next level while having one of these.

          This is not a major update but it's here to show we're
          still working on it. Final version expected in autumn,
          but there will be intermediates inbetween.

    IV. Who are we :
    ----------------

           D-Stroy is the sum of efforts from :

             André Rieussec                       PC programming
             Nicolas Rivière                            Graphics
             Emmanuel Marty                    Amiga programming
             Jerôme Angelot                        Music and SFX
             Michael Lavaire                  Amiga Sound engine
             David Gallo                              Map editor

           All music (for both versions), some being 8 channel
           and most, multisong, were composed on Amiga by
           Jerome Angelot using StoneTracker 1.26 developed by
           Emmanuel Marty and Michael Lavaire. A demo of this
           tracker is available on aminet in mus/edit directory.

           D-Stroy is our first common project and is 100% devoted
           to gameplay. We plan to use more advanced graphic engines
           while keeping that level of gameplay maybe in some future
           surprises, so watch out!

    V. The End:
    -----------

           You may contact us thru e-mail at the following addresses :

         - rieussec@imaginet.fr        (PC version)
         - marty@crit2.univ-montp2.fr  (Amiga version)

           The team wishes to thank all persons that have e-mailed us
         since our release of the first beta version (Spring version).
         Anybody is welcome to send remarks on anything, be it playability,
         music, graphics, bugs.... All e-mailers will be kept informed
         of the betas being released.

           Emmanuel Marty [ Core ] sends regards to all nice open minds
         on #demofr and hardcore amigafans on #amigafr on Effnet; cool
         dudes on #pouet & #warehouse on Undernet; to Peter Kunath and
         Frank Riffel for writing the most useful tool an Amiga programmer
         could dream of [ DeliTracker, to keep me awaken while nightly
         debugging sessions and playing my fav game while translating
         D-stroy "what the fuck André has done here".... :P ]
         as usual, to original Amiga makers, and to anybody I know that
         would get mad at me if I didn't mention him/her.

           Thanks for reading that file to the end, you can now go and
         play D-Stroy, have fun ! (..why do they always say that ??..)










































           Hey!  Your smart ass has found the hidden part of the file!
           Look quick at what's coming!




























           Congratulations! You have won the rare priviledge of seeing the
           end of the file!

------------------------------------- EOF -------------------------------------------
