              EXPLANATION TO DO CHARACTERS FOR DELUXE AMIKISS

   With this explanation more clarifier will try to explain of one more
form clear and simple since you with your Amiga 500 or 1200 can do your
own Amidolls, Amigirls, Amiboys, ojects or what you want, for it I have
included one  example of  design of the doll  suitable Princess for any
public.
   For it it will be  enough to have the  necessary tools,  imagination
and creativity, we see like to do it stepwise of clear and simple form.

   The first thing that we have to do is to  think that we are going to
draw with your  program of favorite drawing,  I use the  PPaint 4.0 for
which I like it more and it works well in 500, you to remember that the
PPaint belongs to Cloanto and it`s freeware, as soon as we have thought
that we are going to draw and  before  putting to draw, will explain to
you of  that the skill consists to give life to our character, this way
of that some element as arms,  or clothes  they stay for on top  of the
clothes or behind or for example elements of the furniture stay behind,
without on top of the doll.  The system consists in a series of depths,
if you  load  with your  program  of  drawing  the  pieces of  the doll
Princess and in the Editor you can understand it better.
   Is very important  that you think  that the  elements as the bottom,
the character, adorns, etc., it have  been of maximus of  height of 270
pixels  and a  weight of  315 pixels,  because if  you do all  elements
biger  than these  sizes the  Editor  and the game  think  that is  are
erroneus.

   
                                DEPTHS

  1. The first depth or plane corresponds to the bottom or set.

  2. The second one corresponds to elements that go behind the doll, in
     this case the carpet and the wings.

  3. The third one corresponds to the doll,  without clothes or effects
     of life it that would be in rest.

  4. The fourth one corresponds to the  effects of life,  in this case,
     eyes opened, the opened mouth, and the chest aspiring she angers.

  5. The fifth one  corresponds to the clothes,  the garments, interior
     clothes, etc.,  it is  necessary  to have in  bill that  the first
     element  will  stay  for   below  of   following  and   like  that
     successively, for what if we draw,  clothes interior  already they
     are  panties and clamper  they will  have to  be it first  to stay
     under averages, trousers, dressed.  To do clothes with blond lace,
     transparencies,  it is necessary to use the color of the bottom to
     do clear zones  that it corresponds  to the effect transparency of
     the  program of  draw,  have to  add  that eye  with  the interior
     clothes feminine so sexy, but simultaneously  so complicated to do
     and that turns out to be the effect,  or that if you draw leotards
     and you put it  as the first  element  in front of the  panties or
     tanga, in your doll  the panty will  appear for above, when in the
     reality it is for below.

  6. The sixth one corresponds to the elements that go over the clothes
     like they are the hands and arms, they it is necessary to draw, as
     elements since without them the garment would cover the  hands and
     they would not be seen  and the shoes when they go on stockings or
     when principally they are seen, if the doll uses long garments, it
     would not be  necessary  drawed,  in case they are  dressed short,
     trousers, stockings,  socks, would correspond  to this depth.  The
     conflict it  can rest in to  draw trousers of bell  or long skirts
     that show shoes,  in this case the shoes  correspond to it depth 5
     and being the first elements, ahead of it clothes in question.

  7. The seventh one corresponds  to superfluous elements of adornment,
     in this case the diadem,  the wreath and  the shoes,  objects that
     stay over the doll, also in this category they can be hangers that
     are seen  over the garment,  a doggy  in the lap of  our princess,
     objects in the  soil or on the  table,  if you draw soldiers,  the
     weapons depends on its position,  with what you will have to think
     them about another depth.

   It is  necessary to  add that another  interesting  option is to use
models of meat and bone from photos,  where they appear  nudes sequence
until be dress up , for later to cut them away, because  another option
since one has  seen with some Amigirl,  it is to draw the clothes, that
except that it is of black  color,  with other color  is see the trick,
another  option inside this  posiblidad is to use a digital camera, and
contract to some beauty model or cheating his girlfriend,  to do photos
corresponding to every depth, or also cheaper using someone famous doll
and to its  boyfriend,  as models,  in all the  cases there  is that to
follow the same steps that in the drawn dolls,  the only point negative
of this option  is that is not  demonstrated imagination,  only it have
money, to be a vague or so you be lucky of have a heat girlfriend.


   Once planned since our character is going to go the second phase and
more important to  record the elements  one to one,  in order that with
the program "CONVERSOR" to generate the file  .dat  where they all will
be the elements of which our character consists.
    
   The first step once  finished of  drawing our  doll,  it is with the
pick  option of our  program of drawing,  to take the first  element in
this case the set without  take the contour of the bottom and once that
we have  the element taken  as paintbrush,  to record  it as such  with
"name.number"  in this  case will  be Princess.1,  Princess.2  for next
element, in order that the  CONVERSOR takes them automatically, as soon
as we have all the elements engraved and respecting its position inside
of every depth,  this way in the  example of the Princess  we will have
them elements Princess.1,  Princess.2  up to Princess.14, every element
correspond to a clothing, adorn, eye, mouth and the character or botton
in this case the table in the room  are the first  element, the carpet,
the second, the fayry wings the third and the doll the fourth, the last
elements are the adorns.

   The second step to  run the Conversor,  the first thing that we will
do will  be to put  in  the  window "Numero de Shapes"  the  number  of
elements of our doll in this case 14, and to pulsate to select file and
to choose Princess.1, later to pulsate "Convertir Shapes" and automati-
cally it will load all the Shapes,  if we doubt that someone of them is
not iff, you will touch "Chequear ILBM" and it will say it to us but we
will have to record this element like iff, the final step is to pulsate
"Grabar Shapes"  and to  indicate  it  that  us  it  records  the  file
generated in the directory Date back to the AmiKiss with  the name that
want and importantly with the extension .dat, in this case would be the
Princess.dat and already we would have the file generated, that It uses
the  Deluxe  AmiKiss, now we  will  go on  to the  third  step and more
importantly.

   The third step to load the Editor, once loaded the editor, the first
thing that we have to do is to indicate the number to it of elements of
our doll into the window "Shapes" in this case to put 14, the following
thing is to load the file *.dat in this case Princesa.dat,  where these
elements  are.  The Editor is  composed of  the following  ones buttons
Amidoll and Ropa(Clothes), these buttons are of vital importance, since
it allows to move, the elements, to manipulate them and the activate us
they  to place  where  it  desires  us,  this  way the  button  Amidoll
corresponds to  the bottom in  this case to  the table in  the room, in
other  cases the  dolls  it can  be  that are  integrated  in  the set,
activate the button we prune to put the room, above, below, etc.,  once
placed where we wish it will be necessary to extinguish the  button, if
we will not continue moving the set, button is the  On-Off of moving to
stop,  the  following  thing  is  to activate  the  button  of the Ropa
(Clothes), and  this way we will  be able to  form our  doll since want
dressed, nude, the  clothes extra arrive,  to the right, etc., to mount
the set.
Since additional help you can  load the  configuration of  the Princess
and you can see like are the elements.
    
    Most importantly  the sensation of  life and  that the objects stay
ahead or behind,  and to fix our doll,  when it is one more element, or
that is not integrated in the set.
    The first thing to fix our doll,  for it you take her and place her
in the part of the table that want, the following thing is to go to the
button of Stop  and one puts in  the window a 1,  and in  the window of
Time a 0, and to  touch the button OK,  and will give us the message of
"Shape inmovil(immobile Shape)"  like  that already  we  have  the doll
fixed and we will be able  to put the carpet  and the wings for behind,
this is valid for all dolls that we do being still this format.
   We are going to  give now the life  to our  Princess,  you take them
eyes, the mouth, or inclusive the chest  aspiring air and we place them
on the zone where they must go, having care of that fit perfectly, once
done this we go to Stop's window and it put the time that has to remain
fixedly the effect  of the eyes or the mouth opened,  and in the window
Time, the  time that  is late in to  return when to  appear  the opened
mouth or the eyes a nd touching  the button OK in order that it says us
"Shape inmovil(inmobile Shape)" in case of being wrong in its placement
and the  eyes they  blink on the nose,  we will  have to go to Stop and
Time windows  and to put 0 and to  touch OK in this case it will say to
us "Shape movil(mobile Shape)"  and  you will  be able  to re-place the
mobile element and to return to repeat the process; this it's the trick
so simple to give life,  times of delays between  image and image, good
and already we have life in our princess.
   Now we are going to explain  like to do that the hands stay over the
clothes, the system is like the position of the doll, to take her right
hand, to put above that fits perfectly to put in the Stop's window  one
1 and in of  the Time one 0 and  to touch the  button OK and it says us
"Shape inmovil(immobile Shape)",  in case of  erroneous  placement, the
value  should give 0  for the  Stop and to  touch OK and  it says to us
"Shape movil(mobile Shape)".

   When you do more than one personage, to fix and to avoid him that it
moves as the clothes,  a very simple  trick is to  treat it like in the
case of the hands, arms or hair, one puts 1 in  Stop's window, and 0 in
the Time's window and to touch OK, and already it will be immobile.

   Once  finished the  configuration  of our  doll so much  them parts,
hinges as the  mobile ones,  we will guard this  configuration with the
extension names more ".cfg",  in this case Princess.cfg,  the next step
is to load the Deluxe AmiKiss game and to play with our small criature,
already it is one beauty, a monster,  only I wait that not give life to
characters of doubtful  reputation and they  turn this innocent game in
a pornography game, this is a game of glamour,  erotic and so for kids,
is not a game for to do pornography.



                   EXPLANATION OF THE BUTTONS OF EVERY PROGRAM

 CONVERSOR

  Selec Fichero(Selec File): This  button indicates  you that  files to
                 load and where they are.

  Fichero(File): It indicates the  name and where one  finds the  files
                 name.number

  Numero de Shapes(Shapes's number): Window w here it  is  necessary to
                 write the number of elements of the character.

  Chequear ILBM(Check ILBM): This button if you activate check that all
                 name.number are iff, it is optional to activate it.

  Convertir Shapes(To turn Shapes): Button to pulsate to turn the files
                 name.number in a general file name.dat

  Grabar Shapes(To record Shapes):  To  record  all   name.number  once
                 turned in  the directory  Data,  you not t o forget to
                 write name.dat

  Mensaje(Message): Window that gives us messages of notice of our step
                these are:

             *Introduce  el  numero  correcto  de shapes(Introduce  the
              correct number of shapes).- In the window Shapes's number
              you have indicated a top or low number to the real number
              of name.number existing.
             *No encuentro el fichero(No  find  the file). -  File  not
              found or that lacking it some name.number
             *Shapes cargados y convertido(Shapes  loaded  and turned).
              - Process direct OK. already to record the file name.dat


 EDITOR

   Menu on having touched the straight button:

     Nuevo(New): To begin again.

     Cargar Shapes(To load Shapes): To load the file  name.dat with the
                 elements.

     Cargar Config(To load Config): To  load the  configuration  of the
                 nombre.cfg with one character already created.

     Grabar Config(To record Config): To  record  the configuration  of
                 our  character one  time  already  we have  placed the
                 elements as the clothes, eyes, bottom, etc., to record
                 it with name.cfg

     Formato Pantalla(Format Screen): To choose the size and the colors
                 of the Editor.

   Top menu of the window of work:

     Window-Shapes: Inside it to put the number of elements that it has
                 the file name.dat

     Button-Amidoll: This  button  being activated  we will be  able to
                 displease  bottom or the  first element for the window
                 of work when you should have decided where it is going
                 to go we will  deactivate it in  order  that it is not
                 possible to to move.

     Button-Clothes: This button being  activated we will displease the
                 elements as the clothes,  the eyes,  the adornments or
                 the doll to place them in the window of the game.

     Window-Clothes: In this window we prune to introduce the number of
                 one element which serves us to accede to of more rapid
                 form,  example the eyes or  mouth in case  making them
                 animated.

     Windows-Stop and Time: In these windows  the time gets of rest and
                 assets in case of animations and for element of bottom
                 in the window  Stop is necessary  to put one 1  and in
                 the window Time to leave 0, for the animations of eyes
                 and mouth, in the window Stop closed eyes it would put
                 2 and in the window Time opened eyes it would put 4.

     Messages window:

                *Shape inmovil: This message say us that the element is
                 not move, for example the eyes when it are animated.

                *Shape movil: This message say us that the element is
                can take and place where you wish.


   And this is quite in case of having some doubt you can contact with
me in the following e-mail:

                              juanamiguero@yahoo.es



   Created help 14-08-03 for: Juan Carlos Herrán Martin
                              

  Deluxe AmiKiss is a game created for: MORGUE SOFT LIMITED 2003.
  The Amidolls,  Amigirls,  Amiboys, etc.  they are a  property  of the
  community of users of Amiga.
