			    Introducing the Amiga

		   Freely Redistributable Software Library


What's Available

	There are "do-nothing-useful" examples of various capabilities of
	the AMIGA, real development tools, editors, languages, games, and
	other odds & ends.  Also included are machine readable form of many
	of the examples (received directly from C-A sources) out of the
	official AMIGA manuals, including the 1.1 ROM Kernel Manual.


How To Obtain Disks

	First, check with your local dealers and user groups.  Most already
	have many of the disks.  Since these disks can be copied freely,
	and widespread distribution is encouraged, they propagate out to 
	central distribution points fairly quickly.

	If you just can't wait, or can't find copies locally, I am willing
	to make these disks available for the cost of media, mailing
	materials, postage, and miscellaneous expenses (like wear and tear
	on my drives).  Naturally, you are encouraged to make copies for 
	your friends, local user groups, dealers, etc.  My goal is to get as
	much software as possible into the hands of people that can use and
	enhance it, and make the AMIGA the success it deserves to be.

	Generally, each disk contains all source necessary to recreate the
	executables provided.  Programs are compiled with the latest Lattice 
	C compiler (and/or Manx C compiler) available at the time of 
	release.  In a very few cases (usually noted in the description) the
	code will not compile or run for some reason, but was considered
	interesting enough to include anyway.

	Disks are typically 85 to 95 percent full.  


How to Order

	To order, send a list of the disks you want, and payment in U.S.
	funds to:

		Fred Fish
		Amiga Library disks
		1346 West 10th Place
		Tempe, Arizona  85281
		USA

		(602) 921-1113    (Sorry, I can only return calls collect.)

	The per disk fee as of July 1987 is as follows:

		1 to 9 disks		$6 per disk
		10 to 49 disks		$5 per disk
		50 or more		$4 per disk

	The price includes cost of media, mailing materials, and first class
	domestic postage.  Overseas orders add $5 per order for air mail.
	Time and other jobs permitting, all disks will be mailed within
	5 days of receipt of order (most are filled the next day).

	The above prices, address, and phone information is current as of
	July 1987.  If the per disk charge in effect at the time your order
	is received is less than the amount stated above, you will be charged
	the lower rate, and an appropriate credit for the difference added
	to your account.  It is highly unlikely that the per disk charge will
	be higher (it has always decreased, reflecting my decreasing cost
	for disks since beginning distribution of the library).  I expect
	another price decrease before the end of 1987.
	
	Feel free to order more than the current number of disks available.
	Excess funds will be placed "in escrow" (refundable at any time) 
	and drawn against for automatic mailings of future disks as they 
	become available.  These disks will be charged against your account
	at the per disk charge in effect at the time they are shipped.
	I hope to add at least four to six disks per month to the library.


Notes

	Please keep in mind that most of the materials in this library are
	intended for use by experienced programmers, or at least experienced 
	Amiga users.  Many are runnable only via the CLI user interface, as 
	they contain no icon files (particularly the early disks).  If you
	are inexperienced with the Amiga CLI interface, you may need the
	assistance of an experienced user to make use of some of these disks.

	I do not guarantee the performance or usability of any of the 
	materials in this library.  I will replace or rewrite, at no
	additional charge, any disk ordered from me which turns out to be
	defective or unreadable.


Catalog Disk

	Because the current library has grown so large, it is no longer cost
	effective to distribute a printed catalog.  Therefore, the catalog
	disk replaces the printed catalog, and will be updated at each new
	release of disks to reflect the current state of the library.

	There is no duplication fee for the catalog disk.  To receive the
	latest available catalog at any time, simply return the original 
	disk, or send a blank disk, to:

		Fred Fish
		Catalog disk update
		1346 West 10th Place
		Tempe, Arizona  85281
		USA

	Please enclose a preaddressed mailing label to affix to our return
	mailing envelope, and sufficient postage for 2 ounces First Class
	mail (currently 39 cents but sure to go up again soon).

	Note that you can always obtain the latest catalog automatically
	by following the above procedure but specifying that you want
	the disk to be held until the next update.
