
  Sixth Sense Investigations
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

  Official demo version
  ---------------------

  By CineTech 1997


1. The game
-----------

 "Sixth sense investigations" is the newest graphic adventure for the Amiga.
It features cartoon graphic, interesting enigmas, many locations and a good
technical implementation.
The game is developed by CineTech, a new group born around VEGA, our reply
to the lack of adventure-games for Amiga.
Vega is an adventures conversion/development system that allows us to develop/convert games
in a short time and with good technical results (please see the "features" table below).
The game will be published by Epic Marketing and will run on all Amigas from
A1200 (including CD32).


2. How to play the demo
-----------------------

 Double click on the game's icon on WB, or execute the 6thdemo script on a
shell window, or (best way) do following in a new shell :

   1. Move to the directory where this demo is installed.
   2. Enter "Vega 6thchild.cmp".


 Game controls 
 -------------
 
    GAME AREA :
   
    Left mouse button  : select objects, characters and exits.
    Right mouse button : automatically selects default action for an object
                         (the enlightened one).
    Both buttons       : enters pause mode (when in pause mode, use left button
                         to resume or right button to QUIT the demo and back to WorkBench).


    PARSER:

    Left mouse button  : selects actions and objects;
                         if clicked on the arrows scrolls inventory of one place.
    Right mouse button : on arrows scrolls inventory of three places; on objects
                         automatically selects default action (the enlightned one).


    LOAD/SAVE:

    Right mouse button : abort load/save and resume playing.



3. Features of the final game
-----------------------------

- Very long (30 locations to explore).
- Many animations to enrich the game.
- Interesting and complex enigmas (the game is planned to be played for
  two months before being completely solved).
- Works 100% on plain A1200 and on CD32.
- Multiple load/save game features.
- 256 colors; 50 frames/second screen refresh for supersmooth action.
- Very fast and comfortable user interface .
- LucasArts alike game style (parser, dialogues, and so on).
- Zoom of main character.
- Multilanguage versions.
- 20 music tracks; sound effects.
- Full charactor speech.
- Many funny characters to interact with (very long dialogues assures to
  the player a deep immersion into the game's environment and also some variety).



4. Known bugs, planned changings and troubleshooting
----------------------------------------------------

- MCP can produce brief flickering of the game's screen. If combined with special viewmodes of the WB screen, it can sometimes lead to crashes of the system. To be on the safe side, if you have MCP installed on your system, please deactivate it before running the game.
- Some screen blankers may conflict with the game's display management. If you notice sometimes display trashing when the game load, then please deactivate screenblankers and restart the game. In general, all background tasks (commodities and related) that sometimes tries to pop-up their own screen (or the workbench one) for any reason, MAY sometimes conflict with the game. One of this programs is the shareware version of the ATAPI device from Hirsch&Wolf. Althought this creates problems only very very rarely, if you have it installed, the best you can do to be on the very safe side is to run the game straight after a "boot-without-startup".
- Some rare times the text trashes with the background if the game is load with
  the workbench. To override, just boot-without-startup and reload the game.
  This bug will be surely fixed in the final version !
- If you play this demo from CDROM, you may have to wait for pretty long loadings,
  we really encourage you to copy the game's directory to you hard-disk and play
  from it, as loadings will be much faster.
- In general : the game has been tested on a variety of machines and configuration,
  but is not at the completention yet. This means that sometimes problems may still arise.
  The best solution if you get strange behaviour, is to adopt the following very general approach :
  reboot your Amiga and select "Boot without startup" from the boot menu. Wait for short boot,
  CD in the directory the demo is installed, enter "Vega 6thchild.cmp".
  Most of times, if the above is needed, Vega automatically detect it and ask you
  if you want to reboot.


5. Disclaimer
-------------

THE ARCHIVE CONTAINING THE DEMO (AND THIS FILE) CAN BE FREELY DISTRIBUITED,
AS LONG AS IT REMAINS 100% UNCHANGED.

"CineTech", "Epic marketing" and "Sixth sense investigations" are copyrighted names.



6. Credits for the game
-----------------------


 Vittorio Ferrari     : Programming (Vega), project manager, editing
 Raymond Zachariasse  : Background graphics, animations
 Leslie Dietz         : Background graphics, animations
 Heiner de Wendt      : Story, all texts, editing, management
 Trevor Hall          : Characters animations
 Ken Mikael Berglund  : Musics
 Serge Veugelers      : Testing, editing, general help
 Claudio Preiano'     : Original story and game ideas
 Tommy Serrien        : Toon world characters (noone included in this demo)


And we also like to thank the folowing people for their contributions :

Pawel Wojciechowski........ for Ben's character animations
Mattias Kylen.............. for drawing Curt

Greetings go to : (thanks, you've been a great help making it what it is now)

Tiziano Gogna
Graham Hamilton
Thomas Steiding
Andrew Savage
Vince Pike (Epic Marketing)


7. Availability
---------------

The final version of the game will be commercially published by Epic and
will available from :

Epic UK  : Epic House - 43 Akers Way, Swindon, Wilts, SN2 2NF, UK
           Tel: 0 1793 514188   Fax: 0 1793 484097

Epic Australia : Tel: 02 9520 9606
Epic Germany   : Tel: 0 7071 635 25


plus all good Amiga software stockists, including:

Software Hut           USA
Delta Software         Switzerland
Liage International    USA
Final DP               France
GTI                    Germany
NonSoloSoft            Italy



 ... Enjoy and please consider buying the final game !


 For any further information about "Sixth Sense investigations" or Vega
 don't hesitate contacting  :

   Vittorio.Ferrari@com.mcnet.ch  (CineTech) (Tel : ++41/91/3222650)
   epicmarketing@dialin.net       (Epic marketing)

