                           WELCOME TO MOONBASE

       Thank you for purchasing MOONBASE!!!

               First of all, take the time to fill out the                        registration form in the front of your manual and send it in.

               Please refer to the paper insert in the box on 
       installation instructions and additional information at the
       end of this readme about installing MOONBASE on your hard drive.
       
       New features for Amiga MOONBASE not documented in the
       MOONBASE manual or changed from the current information.

       --->    Power/Thermal gauges - by either clicking on the
               button in the lower left corner of the main window,
               or by selecting Power/Thermal gauges from the
               OPERATIONS menu, you can pull up a requester box
               that shows gauges for power and thermal control.
               When the needles are in the red, you need more
               power or thermal control. In addition, the images
               on the button will flash when your moonbase requires
               more power or thermal control structures.

       --->    New Cursor - the cursor (when over the lunar 
               surface part of the main window) now shows the
               locations of the airlocks and power/thermal connectors
               of the currently selected tool. The airlocks appear
               as small dash marks coming in from the outer edges
               of the cursor outline. The power/thermal connector
               is shown as a small square in on corner of the cursor.

       --->    Pause Mode - by either clicking on the button in the
               lower right corner of the main window (with the 'P'
               on it) or by selecting Pause from the SETUP menu,
               you can pause the simulation. Pressing the OK button
               in the resulting requester box will resume normal
               play.

       --->    Menu Hotkeys - many of the selections in the menus
               can be invoked via normal keys from the keyboard
               making access to frequently used requester boxes
               easier.

       --->    Rotate Lab - The Labratory tool can be toggled
               between the vertical and horizontal orientation
               by clicking with the right mouse button while in
               the lunar surface part of the main window.

       --->    Cancel button for the Sell and Budget requester
               boxes. By clicking on the cancel button in either
               requester, all operations done since opening the
               requester will be canceled.

       --->    Drag and Draw - while in the lunar surface part of
               the main window, it is possible to Drag and draw
               with any tool in straight lines. This is especially
               helpfull while laying down Roads, Pipes, or Power cable.
               To use this feature, click and hold the left mouse
               button down while also holding down either shift
               key on the keyboard, then drag the mouse in the 
               direction you wish to lay down tools. The direction
               that you first move in will be the axis upon which
               the tools will be placed along.

	MOONBASE is not copy protected in any shape or form, and
	was developed on and runs just fine on an Amiga 3000.

	Additional information about installing MOONBASE on a hard
	drive.

	MOONBASE requires some fonts and library files in order
	to operate. The installation instructions tell you to
	just drag the Fonts and Libs drawers into your hard drive
	partition window. This will copy all the fonts and libraries
	files from the distribution disk into your fonts and libs drawers
	on your hard drive. Some of the fonts and library files may
	already exist on your hard drive. If you don't want the files
	on the distribution disk to overwrite existing files on your
	hard disk, then open a cli or shell and copy the files you don't
	have on your hard disk manually from the floppy.
	The files that MOONBASE requires from the fonts and libs drawers
	are:
		From the Libs drawer

	 	diskfont.library
		mathtrans.library
		iff.library (if you want the logo screen to appear)

		From the Fonts drawer

		info.font and the file in the info drawer
		ticker.font and the file in the ticker drawer
		times.font and the files in the times drawer
		sapphire.font and the file in the sapphire drawer

	Any of the files that you don't have on your hard disk, just
	copy them from the distribution disk.

