                            SHADOW WARRIORS

Typed by MYSTIC FLIGHT.  Edited by PARASITE.


SCENARIO
     Handed down since the turmoil of Medieval warring States are five
secret Ninjitsu techniques known only to the Shadow Warriors.  In the
concrete jungle of an American metropolis chaos has broken loose, an
Oriental demon has possessed the strength of the greatest Warrior and
has summoned forth a squad of ghoulish assassins who must be stopped.
     This duty falls to you, the last in a line of legendary combatants
and the only saviour of a threatened city...Shadow Warrior, the hero of
the '90s.

CONTROLS
     This is a one or two player game and is controlled by joystick only
with the following additional keys.
     H    PAUSE ON/OFF
     S    MUSIC ON/OFF
     1    START PLAYER 1
     2    START PLAYER 2

JOYSTICK CONTROLS
     Press fire button for attack moves.

N    Into screen/hang on
NE   Somersault/throw
E    Right/Attack
S    Out of screen
W    Left/attack
NW   Somersault/throw

STATUS AND SCORING
     The status panel shows swords indicating the number of lives
remaining, energy is displayed above them.
     Points are awarded as follows:

     Killing an enemy                        100   points
     Breaking an object                      50    points
     Killing end of level Guardian           1000  points
     Completion of level                     1000  points

     Bonuses are found when objects are smashed as follows:

     Small Ninja                             Extra life
     Sword                                   Sword
     Blue pill                               1 point of energy
     Red pill                                2 points of energy
     Small ruby                              100 points
     Large ruby                              300 points

     The time is reset back to 99 after completing each level and after
completing a section of the game.

GAMEPLAY
     The player progresses through each level and meets various enemies
along the way.  The Ninja in this game has perfected the techniques of
the Triple Blow Combination.  The Flying Neck Throw, the Hang Kick, the
Phoenix Backflip and the Tightrope technique.
     As he cuts a swathe through each zone, items appear from within
trash cans, signs and telephone booths.  His mission is to fight his way
through six of the toughest neighborhoods in america as he collects
these items and destroys the assassination squads on his way to the
final conflict with the evil Demon.

HINTS AND TIPS
     Try not to let enemies get on both sides of you.  If they do then
try to position an object between you.
     Use objects to take a breather from the action.
     Try jumping over enemies and hitting them from behind.
     Do not rush quickly through the levels.  Stop and wait for enemies
to come on screen individually or in pairs and take them without going
on.  This way large gangs of baddies will be avoided.

End.
