SPACE QUEST III:

        IN THE FREIGHTER:

            Don't fool with the pod that you came in as it is a waste of
            time.

            You will notice an object to the front and right of the door you
            came out.  You cannot move it but you will need it later.

            Head off to the bottom of the screen and then go towards the
            right on the next screen.  You will see a machine bringing scrap
            towards the ceiling.  Hop on and wait.  After it dumps you, type
            "STAND" and then type "JUMP".  You will be on a cross beam.  Go
            towards the left until you reach the control room.  "CLIMB DOWN"
            onto the grabber and go around the control room.  At the screen
            after the control room screen, stop the grabber and push the
            button to lower the claw.  Pick up the warp motivator with the
            claw and after it get back to the grabber go to the right.
            After you go around the turn stop the grabber and lower the
            claw.  You will have to put the warp motivator in the hole in
            the top of the ship.  Ride back to the control room get off the
            grabber and fall down the chute.  

            At the bottom of the chute go to the left where the wire goes
            into the wall and get the reactor.  Climb out using the ladder
            and head towards the top of the screen.  you are now back where
            you started.  Go to the right and go into the tunnel.  As you
            pass thru the tunnel a rat will grab the reactor from you.  Go
            back to the room where you got the reactor and get it again.
            When you climb out again, take the ladder.  Now when you go
            through the tunnel take the wires and continue thru the tunnel.

            Go to the large head and climb in the eye.  Go to the ship and
            use the ladder to get on top and open the hatch and enter the
            ship.  Put the reactor in the hole to the left and then use the
            wires to splice them together.  Get in the cockpit and examine
            controls.  Turn on the engine, turn on the radar, take off, use
            your front shields and blast your way out.

        IN SPACE:

            Scan the area.  Don't bother with monolith burger or the
            volcanic world but go to the other one (sorry i forgot its
            name).  Land and go to the tourist trap and enter the building.
            Examine the postcards as there are interesting facts you need
            here.  Sell your gem.  Buy thermal underwear and a hat if you
            want it.  As you leave you will meet a baddie who is out to get
            you.  Don't go to your ship!  Instead go to the left of the
            robot and take the elevator up.  When the baddie follows, wait
            till he is near the gears and then grab the pulley.  After he
            becomes burger go down and get his belt.  Leave and go back to
            your ship and go to the volcano planet.  

        VOLCANO PLANET:

            Put on you underwear and go to the left and wait until the
            survey team leaves.  Get a detonator and the pole.  Go in the
            direction that the survey team left and go up the mountain and
            drop the detonator in the machine in the crater.  When you get
            to the crossing back to your ship, use the pole and jump the
            gulley.  Take off and go to pestulon.

        PESTULON:

            Use the belt and get inside past the guards.  Go to the broom
            closet and change into the janitor's closet.  Enter the
            accounting area and use the vaporizer on every trashcan you
            come to.  Make your way to the picture of elmo and take it to
            the copy machine and make a copy.  Put the picture back and
            make your way thru the accounting area to elmos office.  After
            doing elmo's trash, leave and go to the balcony.  When you
            come back, elmo will be gone and get the keycard off of his
            desk.  Make your way back to the corridor and on the security
            door use the keycard and then the picture.  When you see the
            jello mold people, push the ramp button and then vaporize the
            jello.

        THE ROBOT FIGHT:

            Just do your best, no tricks here.

        THE SPACE BATTLE:

            Make sure that you get your front shields up as the fighter
            comes at you and then destroy it when it is behind you.  You
            will have to kill all the fighters as if you miss you will die.


