SWORD OF ARAGON:

                              PLAYERS GUIDE
                     

  *** Starting Out
  The Ranger is the best man to have as your leader because the characters
  he comes with, (mage, priest, warrior and two rangers) give you the
  chance to build up your mage from the very start, and letting you get to
  those mega powerful spells like Pyro and Disintegrate really quickly,
  thus being able to do much more damage in battle, and from a distance
  where you can't be hurt.
  Also, decommision all your troops at the very start and reinforce your
  bowmen, as these are by far the best men to have as they can attack
  armies without having to engage with them, and save a lode those precious
  hit.  Infintry and mounted cavalry are not a very advisable because they
  always take a lot of damage and take too long to get to the higher
  levels.
  If you really want to have a few armies with melee weapons then go the
  whole hog and get some cavalry.  These blokes can take a hell of a lot
  of stick and still come out almost undamaged; at higher levels they can
  totally decimate the enemy.
  Remember to keep an eye on how your cities are doing, but don't spend
  too much on developement.  The best thing to do is save the same before
  you go to the next month.  That way if anything nasty happens you can
  reload it and try again, thus avoiding the situation.  Not all the
  cities have to be taken by force, and if you can get one to become your
  vassel it guarantees you a profit each month from that city.
  *** Decisions
  Muscle isn't the only thing you're going to have to use.  If you want
  your people to stay loyal you'll have to make the right decisions.  The
  man Olaf who's up for murder is innocent and should be pardoned.  When
  the Elven diplomat arrives and asks you to stop developing the lumber
  do as he wishes and become allied with the elves.  Pay ransoms or the
  people's morale will go down.
  Trolls will sometimes demand money from Sur Nova, but if you take your
  forces to the Troll's village and capture it, you shouldn't have any
  more problems.  The Nomads don't give you many problems if they become
  your enemy, but become their ally anyhow just to be on the safe side.
  *** Unknown Cities
  There are a quite a few unknown cities in the unexplored lands of Aladda,
  some of them friendly, most of them evil.  Below are a small guidelines
  on what to expect from these mysterious places and their inhabitants.
  - Tranavan: City Of The Elves
  Depending on how diplomatic you've been this place could be either
  hostile or friendly.  But if you've followed the tips you won't have any
  problems.
  - Gernok: City Of The Goblins
  This place is filled with goblin forces plus a few rather nasty looking
  monsters with magic capabilities, but it's not too hard to beat them.
  However, remains of the Goblins will come back after and try to win back
  the city.
  - Xafanta: City Of The Dwarves
  These chaps are having quite a few problems with the orcs of Zarnix,
  and they will help you defeat the orcs in the pass just before Zarnix.
  - Medeval: City Of The Elves
  This is yet another city full of Elves, however, unlike the first city
  the Elves aren't so nice and are pretty tough cookies.
  - Char: City Of The Giants
  This is where those big nasties hang out. Defeating them is quite a
  problem, but with a few cavalry to aid your bowmen you should be able to
  capture the city.  A good reason for taking this city is that the giants
  have control of a lake near to Tentula, and once you've got it back the
  city's income should increase a little.
  - Troll Village
  If you're looking for a tough battle then this is the place to come.
  There are tons of Troll and you'll need a lot of men to defeat them.
  You'll also lose a lot of men in the process.  This should stop any ran-
  somed demands from the iliterate Trolls and make life a lot easier.
  - Dersh: City Of The Titans
  Dersh is probably the last unknown city you'll come to, and it is by
  far the hardest.  A huge number of men will be needed to take over this
  city, and nearly all of them will be lost in the battle.
