                              SKID ROW

                              presents

                     ELVIRA: MISTRESS OF THE DARK

INSTRUCTION CARD FOR AMIGA

Note: This following are installation and loading instructions specifically
for the Amiga.  The enclosed manual should be referred to for all game
play issues (including saving games).

Back Up Your Game Disks!

Before you go any further, it is highly recommended that you make back-
ups of your game disks.  The program comes without on-disk protection,
so doing so is simple.  Make sure to store the originals in a safe place,
and use the copies when playing or installing the game.  Refer to your
Amiga manual on how to copy disks.

Note: Make sure to rename the copies so that they are the same as the
originals.  For example, after copying Disk 1, rename the copy from
"copy of DISK 1" to "DISK 1".  Do the same for the remaining disks. 

System Requirements

To play Elvira, you will need the following:

   o  Amiga 500, 1000 or 2000
   o  1 megabyte of memory.
   o  If loading from a hard drive, you will need 740K of free RAM
      after Workbench is loaded.
   o  A blank formatted disk to save games (if playing from floppy disks).

Hard Drive Installation

To install Elvira onto your hard drive, do the following:

1   Enter the CLI or SHELL.
2   Place Elvira disk 1 in df0:.
3   Type cd df0: and press Return.
4   Type HDINSTALL DHx: (where x indicates the hard drive, i.e., dh0:,
    dh1:, etc.) and press Return.
5   Insert disks 2 through 5 when prompted.
6   To run the game from workbench, double-click on the Mistress folder,
    then double click on the Elvira icon.
7   To run the game from CLI or SHELL, change to the Elvira subdirectory
    and type RUNIT and then press enter.
  
Playing from Floppy Disk

1   With your computer off, insert Elvira Disk 1 into df0: (internal
    disk drive).
2   Turn on the computer.  The program will load automatically.
3   When prompted, insert the proper disk into df0:.

Note: Be sure you are inserting the correct disks when prompted.

