                               SKID ROW

                               presents

                            THE UNTOUCHABLES

THRILLING ACTION ON THE STREETS OF CHICAGO

SCENARIO

Original and diverse arcade-style sections put you in control of Elliot
Ness' elite sqaud of crimebusters.  The Warehouse Bust, The Border Raid,
The Alleyway Shootouts, The Railway Station Confrontation and The Final
Rooftop Duel enable you to re-live the knife-edge existence of Elliot
Ness as you crusade through 1920's Chicago in search of Capone's
retribution.  Take on the Mob as you lead the Untouchables on their most
exciting and difficult mission!  With six levels of explosive action and
a thrilling denouement.

THE UNTOUCHABLES... LIVE AN AMERICAN LEGEND

LOADING

Amiga 1000

Insert the Kickstart disk.  When the Workbench symbol appears, follow
instructions for Amiga below.

AMIGA

Insert disk 1 into drive A.  If you have two disk drives, insert disk 2
in drive B.  The game will now load automatically.

CONTROL

                          Jump Up /
                          Raise Gun
                              |
                 Jump Left \  |  / Jump Right
                            \ | /
                  Run /      \|/   Run /
                  Gun Left --(_)-- Gun Right
                             /|\
                 Crouch /   / | \  Crouch /
                 Roll Left /  |  \ Roll Right
                              |
                      Crouch / Gun Down

Control is by Joystick or cursor keys (SPACE=FIRE) only.
CAPS LOCK - PAUSE ON / OFF

STATUS PANEL

The Status Panel at the bottom of the screen displays, when appropriate,
the following: Score, Time remaining, Evidence collected, Ammunition
remaining, Weapon, Energy, Current Active Untouchable, Gunsight, Baby-
carriage damage.

SCORING

Your score is increased by shooting gangsters and collecting evidence
in the appropriate levels.  In some versions, your energy depletion is
shown by your character's image slowly being replaced by that of Capone's.
Large bonuses are awarded for completing a level.

GAMEPLAY

SECTION 1 - THE WAREHOUSE

You find out that Capone's gang are working in a derelict warehouse,
bootlegging liquor.  You bust in on them in an attempt to break up
their operation.  However, this surprise attack yields a bonus as
some of Capone's bookkeepers are present, and you must take the
opportunity of capturing them in order to gather preliminary evidence
of his illegal activities.  An arrow will guide you to the positions
of the bookkeepers, whom you must shoot in order to make them drop the
ledger pages.  These pages must be collected immediately before they
are removed.  There are numerous gun-toting gangsters who will try to
thwart you, although some of these guys, when shot, may drop a violin
case containing a useful item such as energy or a high-powered weapon.
The level is complete when you have collected 100% of the evidence
(shown on your Status Panel).

SECTION 2 - THE BRIDGE

Acting on information gained from the Warehouse Raid, you attempt to
thwart an illegal liquor run at the U.S. / Canadian border.  Armed
with a machine gun, you must shoot Capone's men and stop the
contraband crossing the border.  Locate and shoot the bottles which
appear one-at-time in different places on a bridge.

SECTION 3 - THE ALLEYS

Acting on a tip-off from one of the men at the border, you head for the
train station where Capone's accountant is trying to leave the country.
You must get to him (and the evidence) before the train leaves.
Capone's mob hears of your intentions and will try anything to prevent
you arrriving at your destination.  As you progress through the
streets of Chicago, you are confronted by ambushes at every turn.
You must eliminate your attackers quickly in order to get to the train
station on time.  You are armed with just a double-barrelled shotgun
which allows two shots only.  After each two shots, you must reload
your gun; this is done automatically.  If your energy is running low,
you may (when reloading) switch the control to that of another
Untouchables character.  (NOTE: You can only switch between TWO of the
characters).

SECTION 4 - THE TRAIN STATION

As Ness awaits the arrival of the accountant, he helps a woman lift her
baby-carriage up the steps of the Station.  Before he reaches the top,
Capone's accountant arrives with an armed escort who opens fire.  Ness
releases the baby-carriage which begins a dangerous descent down the
steps.  You must protect and guide the baby-carriage to the bottom of
the concourse, avoiding enemy fire and any obstructions.  You must also
avoid shooting any innocent bystanders as this will result in a large
energy loss.

SECTION 5 - THE HOSTAGE

Realizing he is the last survivor in the Station, Capone's man takes
the accountant hostage at gunpoint and threatens to shoot him in five
seconds if you do not drop your pistol.  Stone must shoot him within
that time, scoring a perfect fatal hit with a single shot.

SECTION 6 - THE ROOFTOP

With the evidence collected.  Capone is indicted for tax evasion.
His head hitman, Frank Nitty, is still at large, however, and you must
chase him across the courthouse rooftop and avenge Malone's death.
This is the final and bloody shootout which, if successful, will result
in Nitty falling to hius death.  Your gun magazine contains just six
rounds, so you will need to reload periodically.  To do this, move back
behind the wall and press fire for each round to be loaded.

PLAYING TIPS

1. Each level has a time limit, so don't waste time.
2. On levels where you have the option of switching characters, do so
   frequently as energy of characters inactive recharges slowly.
3. Certain members of the Untouchables must remain alive for certain
   sections of the game - the Movie may give you a clue.
4. Learn layouts of each level.

