Short:        Adventures creator, working in progress
Author:       stefacs@esseemmeerre.mailshell.com (Stefano Maria Regattin)
Uploader:     stefacs@esseemmeerre.mailshell.com (Stefano Maria Regattin)
Type:         game/demo
Version:      0.04
Architecture: m68k-amigaos
Requires:     Any Classic Amiga (emulated)

Date: Wednesday, 11th January 2023

This program is my reworking of the most famous Adventure Construction Set, ACS
for friends; I own that prog and its italian manual but it runs only on old
kickstart (1.2-1.3) so I have decided to write my version for all Amigas.
This upload was made because I have updated the address of my site.
There is a lot to do but for who is owner of Blitz2 or who has downloaded
AmiBlitz2 from Aminet (if you are interested in Amiga programming look for it!)
or from the official site (http://www.blitz-2000.co.uk/) the source code is
present, so if you want you can create your own version!
I am very sorry but I have forgotten to insert in the previous versions of the
archive the font for the prog, without it you will never succeed to run the
prog!
Now there is the font: I hope that you will like the few things the program can
do.
For a typing error was impossible to draw into the image area; I hope now the
problen is solved.
Now the drawing in the image area is no more slow.
Updated the Data70, specifically I have lowered the underscore char.
Updated the Data70, specifically I have raised the tilde char.
Corrected the Data70 font installation script.
Updated the Data70 font.
Bugs report and suggestions for the game are welcome!
I am not responsible of any damage this program can makes to your system; you
use it at your own risk!
At end visit my sites on the following Web adresses:
http://www.stefanomaria.altervista.org
http://www.esseemmeerre.altervista.org
Do not forget to search me on http://www.github.com!
The following is the same text in italian.

Data: mercoledì, 11 gennaio 2023

Questo programma è la mia ricostruzione del famoso Adventure Construction Set,
ACS per gli amici; io ho questo programma con il manuale in italiano ma funziona
solo sugli Amiga con kickstart vecchio (1.2-1.3) così ho deciso di scrivere una
mia versione per tutti gli Amiga.
Questo caricamento è stato fatto perché ho aggiornato l'indirizzo del mio sito.
Mancano un sacco di cose da fare ma per chi possiede Blitz2 o ha scaricato
AmiBlitz2 da Aminet (se siete interessati alla programmazione su Amiga
cercatelo!) o dal sito ufficiale (http://www.blitz-2000.co.uk) è presente anche
il codice sorgente, così se vorrete potrete creare una vostra versione.
Sono molto spiacente ma avevo dimenticato di inserire nelle precedenti versioni
dell'archivio la fonte di caratteri del programma, senza la quale non riuscirete
mai ad eseguire con successo il programma!
Ora la fonte di caratteri c'è: spero che vi piacca quel poco che il programma
riesce a fare.
Per un errore di digitazione era impossibile disegnare nell'area dell'immagine;
spero che ora il problema è risolto.
Ora il disegno nell'area dell immagine non è più lento.
Aggiornato il font Data70, specificamente ho abbassato il carattere trattino
basso.
Aggiornato il font Data70, specificamente ho alzato il carattere tilde.
Corretto lo script d'installazione del font Data70.
Aggiornato il font Data70.
La segnalazione di bachi ed i suggerimenti per il gioco sono benvenuti!
Non sono responsabile di alcun danno che questo programma può fare al vostro
sistema; lo usate a vostro esclusivo rischio!
Per finire visitate i miei siti ai seguenti
indirizzi Web:
http://www.stefanomaria.altervista.org
http://www.esseemmeerre.altervista.org
Non dimenticate di cercarmi su 
http://www.github.com!

Ciao!