                              SKID ROW

                              presents

                            STAR CONTROL

INSTRUCTION CARD FOR AMIGA

Important Note: This command card pertains pertinent information for
using the Amiga version of Star Control.  You should still refer to the
enclosed manual, but note the changes indicated here.  Any page number
below refers to the page number in the manual where change occurs.

How to Install Star Control
(Page 1)

System Requirements

To play Star Control, you need the following:

   o  1 megabyte of memory.
   o  If loading from a hard drive, you will need 800K of free RAM
      after Workbench is loaded.
   o  A blank formatted disk to save games (if playing from floppy disks).

Back up Your Game Disks!

The program comes without on-disk copy protection.  We highly recommend
that you make back-ups of the program disks, and store the originals in
a safe, dry place.  Refer to your Amiga manual for the correct procedure.

    Note: Make sure to rename the copies so that they are the same as
    the originals.  For example, after copying Disk 1, rename the copy
    from "copy of Star Control Disk 1" to "Star Control Disk 1".  Do
    the same for Disk 2.

Installation For a Hard Drive

To install Star Control on your hard drive, do the following:

1   Enter CLI.
2   Insert Star Control disk 1 into df0:.
3   Type cd dh0: and press Return.
4   Type execute df0:hdinstall and press Return.
5   Swap disks when instructed to do so.

    Note: Use your copies when installing Star Control to a hard drive.

Starting the Game
(Page 3)

From a Hard Drive System:

From Workbench, double click on the Star Control folder, then double
click on the Star Control icon.


From a Single Floppy Drive System:

1   With your computer off, insert Star Control Disk 1 into drive df0:.
2   Turn on the computer.  The program  will load automatically.
3   When prompted, insert Disk 2 into df0:.  (You will not have to swap
    disks again.)


From a Dual Floppy Drive System:

1   With your computer off, insert Disk 1 into drive df0:.
2   Insert Disk 2 into drive df1: (or df2: for Amiga 2000).
3   Turn on the computer.  The program will load automatically.


To Boot from Workbench:

Insert Disk 1 into drive df0:.  Double click on the Disk 1 icon, then
double click on the Star Control icon.

Keyboard Cursor Controls
(Page 7)

    Up Cursor Arrow - Moves highlight
    Down Cursor Arrow - Moves highlight
    Left Cursor Arrow - Moves highlight
    Right Cursor Arrow - Moves highlight
    RETURN key - Selects Highlighted Option


Joystick Cursor Controls

    Note: Any reference in the manual to "button #1" means the fire
    button, since there is only one fire button for Amiga joystick
    play.  Also, the joystick must be plugged into port 2 for one
    player joystick control.  For a two player game using two joysticks,
    a second joystick can be plugged into port 1 (mouse port), but must
    be done BEFORE going beyond the copy protection screen (Professor
    Zorg's Guide to Alien Etiquette).

Joystick Ship Controls
(Page 8)

                                    UP
                                  Thrust
                       UP / LEFT    |    UP / RIGHT
            Thrust & Rotate Left \  |  / Thrust & Rotate Right
                                  \ | /
                                   \|/
                            LEFT --(_)-- RIGHT
                          Rotate   /|\   Rotate
                                  / | \
                     DOWN / LEFT /  |  \ DOWN / RIGHT
   Special Power and Rotate Left    |    Special Power and Rotate Right
                                   DOWN
                               Special Power

(Hierarchy and Alliance joystick controls are identical)


Other Special Controls

F3 - Does NOT turn sound on / off.  Simply turn the volume up / down
     on your monitor.

Saving a Game in Progress

1    Press F7.
2    If running from a floppy disk, insert a formatted disk into drive
     df0:.
3    Select a number from 1-9 to identify a saved game, and type it.
4    Type a name for the saved game, then press Enter.
5    When the save is complete, you're returned to the Fleet Command
     View.

Keyboard Configuration Utility
(Page 49)

The Keyboard Configuration Utility - Keys - lets you reconfigure the
keys you'll use as the control keys in Star Control.  To use, double
click the Star Control Disk 1 icon from Workbench (Star Control folder
if installed on the hard drive) and then double click on the Keys icon.

Scenario Editor
(Page 50)

The Scenario Editor Utility - Edit - allows you to modify the scenarios
which came with the game, and even create new scenarios entirely of your
own design.  To use, double click on the Star Control Disk 1 icon
(Star Control folder if installed on a hard drive) and then double click
on the Edit icon.

(Page 51)

F10 - To exit the program


