			STELLAR CRUSADE

			AMIGA DATA CARD

IMPORTANT: RULEBOX INFORMATION WHICH APPLIES TO THE ATARI ST VERSION ALSO
APPLIES TO THE AMIGA VERSION (EXCEPT FOR THE START-UP INSTRUCTIONS).

LOADING THE GAME (AMIGA 500,1000,2000):
1. Set up your computer as shown in the Amiga user's manual.
2. Turn on your computer.
3. If you do not have Kickstart 1.2 or greater in ROM, then insert your
   Kickstart disk in drive DF0: (this applies to 1000 owners).
4. When requested to enter your Workbench disk, please insert your STELLAR
   CRUSADE game disk icon.
5. Double-click on the disk icon.
6. Now double-click on the CRUSADE icon.

TO INSTALL STELLAR CRUSADE ON A HARD DRIVE:
1. Create a new directory on your hard drive (name it anything you want),
   and open this directory.
2. Insert the game disk and double-click on the disk icon. 
3. Move everything from the disk to the newly created directory by simply
   clicking and dragging the icons from the disk window to the new
   directory window. 
4. Repeat steps 2 & 3 for the scenario disk. 
5. To run the game, simply double-click on the CRUSADE icon in the newly
   created directory.

				i

RULEBOOK CLARIFICATIONS:
The following information will help clarify some of the rules of play. The
points are listed in the order in which they appear in your manual.

			3.0 MOVEMENT AND COMBAT

Transfers vs. Reassignment: The game routines for ship transfers and
reassignments are fairly 'intelligent'.

Transfers are only allowed into a task force up to the level of 20 ships.
Any other transfer requests are ignored until there is space available in
the target force.

Reassignments are also limited to available spaces. In addition to checking
the target force or command, the reassignment routine also checks to see
whether any ships are already in transit to the target.

If any of your transfer or reassignment orders are not allowed by the game,
be sure to check that sufficient space exists in the target force or
command/in transit before panicking. The absolute limit is 51 ships in
transit per player.

Raiding Command: In addition to their duties as raiders, ships in your
raiding command will contribute to your intelligence gathering efforts. For
every 5 ships (round down) in your raiding command, you get the effect of
assigning one special operations point to system reconnaissance. So even if
you never spend a single build point on special ops, you may get some
reconnaissance information from ships in your raiding command.

Combat: Before any formal hostilities have broken out, no ship to ship,
command level, or space to ground combat will occur under any
circumstances. Once limited hostilities have begun, command level combat is
allowed. Ship to ship and space to ground combat will only occur in open
hostilities have begun, as indicated by the 'WAR' icon in the lower right
area of the map.

Disengagement: There is a special type of disengagement which applies only
if all remaining forces on one side are 'i-space' ships. In this case,
combat will last a maximum of about four hours. I-space ships are not
intended for extended unsupported operations against ships operating in
normal space. The i-space drive is essentially an ambush/evasion device
which loses its effectiveness during long engagements.

Commanders: No mention is made in the rules of the effects of age on
commanders. The program will occasionally 'retire' commanders. This can
happen at any time after a commander reaches the age of 35. Retirement
probability increases with increasing age. This is the only effect on age.

				ii

			5.0 ECONOMICS

Basics: The basic unit of production is a build point. Each operational
factory produces one build point each quarter. For a factory to be
operational, it must have one organic, one metal, and one food unit
available. Refineries produce organic points, mines produce metal points,
and farms produce food points. Ten build points are required to build a
factory. Shipyards, Training Centers, and Intelligence Centers each require
10 build points per point of increased capacity. Farms, Mines, and
Refineries cost from 5 to 30 build points to build,  depending upon the
planetary conditions. Here is an example of planetary production for one
quarter:

FARMS:	32			CAPACITY	COST OF SHIP	POINTS SPENT
MINES:	40	SHIPYARD>	28		20		10
REFINERIES: 44
FACTORIES:  51

Only 32 factories will be operational since there are only 32 food points.
Ten build points are spent to increase the Shipyard capacity from 28 to 29.
Ten build points are spent to finish building the ship. The 12 unused build
points will automatically go into Research if not used to produce anything.

Research and Effectiveness: For every 500 build points invested into
research,  your overall effectiveness level increases by one. Effectiveness
is basically your current level of technology. There are two ways to invest
in research:

A. Each system owned by a player will automatically contribute one build
point per turn to the research pool. Systems with paleotechnology
contribute two build points per turn.

B. Any unused build points will be contributed to research when you exit
from the Allocations 3 screen as shown in the previous example.

IMPORTANT: An increased effectiveness level has no direct effect on the
capabilities of your forces. In order to receive any benefits from an
increase in effectiveness, you must design new ships (which will
automatically have the new effectiveness level) and change your shipyards
to produce the newly designed ships. However, this can be expensive in the
short term when refitting your production centers. Effectiveness levels in
excess of 10 will not improve the fighting capabilities of your forces, but
will contribute 50 points per level above level 4 toward the victory
conditions.

Allocations: As a result of requests by early players of the game, an
additional allocations cancel opportunity has been added to the first
screen of allocations.

				iii

Allocating Build Points: Local intelligence centers work as well as
deployed troops in suppressing food riots.

Production:

Shipyards: In addition to the restrictions mentioned in the rules, ships
will only be produced if there are fewer than 34 ships in transit, and if
you currently have fewer than 120 ships. If you notice that points are
accumulating at shipyards without any new ships being produced, check to
see if there is room for them 'in transit', and look at one of your
undefined (free) ship classes (all zeros) to get a quick count of your
number of available ship slots. If you already have 120 ships, you will
need to scrap older ships to produce any more new ones.

Training Centers: In addition to the restrictions mentioned in the rules, 
military units will only be produced if you currently have fewer than 60
units,  and the local ideal population is greater than 0. In addition to
their build point costs, each unit costs one point of population.

				iv

			TABLE OF CONTENTS

1.0 INTRODUCTION......................................................1
2.0 PLAYING STELLAR CRUSADE...........................................1
3.0 MOVEMENT AND COMBAT...............................................8
4.0 EXPLORATION AND COLONIZATION.....................................16
5.0 ECONOMICS........................................................18
6.0 SCENARIOS........................................................22
7.0 SOLITAIRE VS TWO PLAYER MODE.....................................24
8.0 DESIGNER'S NOTES.................................................24

9.0 APPENDICES:
A-THE SYSTEM REPORT..................................................26
B-THE TASK FORCE DISPLAY.............................................27
C-HISTORY OF THE KIFFRYN'S CATS STAR CLUSTER.........................28
D-GLOSSARY...........................................................29
E-TABLES.............................................................31

				v

PARTS INVENTORY:

Your game should include the following items:
One game box
Two disks labeled "Game (A)" and "Scenarios (B)" (the IBM version includes
two 5.25" and one 3.5" disk)
The rulebook

1.0 INTRODUCTION

The broadcast was a Mandatory; failure to watch was an imprisonable
misdemeanor. Consequently, nearly every citizen of the People's Holy
Republic was dutifully attendant when First Elder Gresham stood before the
Council in the Central Committee Hall on Progress and raised his seamed
face toward Heaven, lifting his hands above his head...

"The hour has come Comrades. No more can we tolerate the insidious
machinations of this 'Corporate' League. In two years, the Terran Navy,
cowed by their revisionist government, will leave us to our fate. We will
be alone."

"Our test is at hand! The Communing God has put a task before us and we
shall not falter. We must drive the sickness of capitalism from our home.
We must burn out the evil of this League of Devils with the fury of an
exploding sun!" "Join me in this most holy of guests. Swear with me by The
Blood of Saint Mao that none shall rest until this holy war is prosecuted
to its just and righteous ending. Join me in this Stellar Crusade!"

Sixteen days after his declaration of war, First Elder Gresham died of an
apparent stroke, after which his driver, Vasily, disappeared without a
trace. The resulting struggle for his place on the council lasted nearly
six years. Six years of desperately needed time for the League to
prepare...

2.0 PLAYING STELLAR CRUSADE

Stellar Crusade is a two player game of exploitation and conquest on an
interstellar scale. Two factions, The League and The People's Holy Republic
compete over the span of decades for control of a small, but richly
endowed, star cluster in a remote arm of the galaxy. The League is always
controlled by a human player while the P.H.R. may be either human or
computer controlled.

INSTALLATION AND SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

ATARI ST VERSION:

Stellar Crusade needs most of 512K to run properly. If you have a 512K
machine,  try to minimize the number of desk accessories on your system
disk. If you have more than 512K, be sure to leave at least that much for
system and program use. The game should work with most desk accessories,
but if you're not certain, boot your computer with the Stellar Crusade Game
Disk (disk A).

If you plan to use a hard disk or double sided 3.5" disk, copy the complete
contents of both the Game and Scenario disks into the same directory
(folder). There's no restriction on the "path" from which the game can be
loaded.

				1

If you use two separate disks, the scenario disk must be inserted into
drive B (if available) or whichever drive the program asks for.

IBM PC XT/AT VERSION:

The game requires about 200K of free RAM. This means that on machines with
256K you won't be able to use any TSR (Terminate and Stay Resident)
programs like Borland's Sidekick. If you have trouble getting the program
to run, change your autoexec.bat file to prevent loading any TSR programs
you might be using and reboot.

The program supports the following graphics adapters: CGA, MCGA, EGA56K,
EGA256K,  HGA and VGA. One of these adapters must be present for the
program to run.  If you're using a hard disk, copy the contents of both the
Game and Scenario disks into a single directory.

STARTING UP

Make a copy of your disks for playing the game. Don't use the masters.

ATARI ST VERSION:

Put the Stellar Crusade Game Disk (disk A) in drive A and power up your
computer. If you have only one disk drive, the program will automatically
prompt you to insert the Scenario Disk (disk B) at the appropriate time. If
you have a two drive system, put the Scenario Disk in drive B.

Make sure that your computer is in Low Resolution Mode. Stellar Crusade
won't run if it's not. If there's no open window for drive A, open the
drive A icon. Double click the icon titled CRUSADE.PRG and follow the
prompts as they occur. Once the program tells you to insert your save disk,
the game is entirely memory resident. You can put your game and scenario
disk away.

IBM PC XT/AT VERSION:

The Stellar Crusade Game Disk doesn't come equipped with DOS, so boot your
computer normally. Then, put the Stellar Crusade game disk (disk A) into
drive A and type "CRUSADE". If you have a two drive system, put the
Scenarios disk (disk B) into drive B. 

If you only have one drive, the computer will prompt you to insert the
Scenario disk at the appropriate time. To install stellar Crusade on a hard
disk, simply copy the contents of both disks into a sub directory. You can
name the directory anything you like. 

If your game and scenario files are in the default directories of your
copies of the master disks, just type "CRUSADE" and press RETURN to start
the game. If you copied the game and scenario files into a sub directory,
use the DOS command "CD" to change the current directory before you type
"CRUSADE". 

Once the game is loaded, the program will tell you when it needs to have
disks swapped. The game disk is required to be in the boot drive at all
times, unless the program tells you otherwise.

LOADING A SAVED GAME

ATARI ST VERSION:

Once the program has started, you'll be asked if you want to load a
previously saved game. If you do, you'll be presented with a standard GEM
file dialog box

				2

listing all the save files on drive A. You can change drives by clicking
the button above the list of files. Clicking cancel will start the default
game (The Long Campaign).

NOTES ON THE GEM FILE SELECTOR BOX:

Files are selected by clicking the mouse on a file name. If you want to
search another drive or directory, move the text cursor (a vertical line)
up to the current path definition and make any changes you need with the
keyboard. In order to search the new path for saved game files, move the
cursor over to the vertical (scroll) bar to the right of the file display
and press the left mouse button.

IBM PC XT/AT VERSION:

Once the program has started, you'll be asked if you want to load a
previously saved game. If you do, you'll be prompted to make sure that your
saved games are in one of the system's drives. Select the drive and you'll
see a list of available files. Type the number of the file you want and
press RETURN.

DOCUMENTATION CHECK

After you select a scenario or saved game, the computer will ask you to do
a documentation check before it will allow you to start the game. This will
take the form of a question about some section of the rules.

EXAMPLE:
Please type the first word of section: 2.0, subsection: Prompts and press
enter.

The correct response would be "sometimes" (without the quotes). You have
three chances to get the right response.

GAME MODES

If you're starting a new game, the program will display a menu for
selecting the scenario, reality levels and difficulty. Reality levels are
either "on" or "off" while difficulty ranges from "Pushover" to "Hideous"
(see section 6 for specific effects). If you choose "Random", the computer
will pick a difficulty without informing you of the result.

MAINTENANCE AND TRAINING

When selected, this reality level requires you to manage the maintenance of
your ships and military units. This means you'll have to supply spares to
the Fleet and rations to Army. See "Maintenance" in section 5 for details.

COMMAND CONTROL AND FOG OF WAR

This enables hidden movement and covert operations. If Fog of War is
switched off, all fleet movements are visible to either player and certain
menu options related to Special Ops (See Special Ops in section 5) will be
disabled. The Commanders selection in the Assign menu will also be
disabled.

If you're not familiar with the game, it's a good idea to keep both of
these reality levels turned off. They add significant complexity to the
game.

TALKING TO THE COMPUTER

ATARI ST VERSION:

With the exception of naming ship classes and save game files, everything
in Stellar Crusade is done with the mouse. Selections are always made with
a single click of the left button. Whenever the menu bar is visible at the
top of the screen, moving the cursor over the name of a menu will reveal a
list of selections. If you don't want to choose any of the selections
listed, simply

				3

click anywhere on the screen that's not part of the menu. The menu will
disappear.

IBM PC XT/AT VERSION:

Except for naming ship classes and save game files, you can control almost
everything in Stellar Crusade with the numeric keypad. On the main map,
cursor movement is done with number keys.

Cursor speed will increase if you hold down the shift key with one of the
other keys.

The center (5) key toggles between cursor movement and the menus. If the
menus are active, one of the menu titles will be highlighted and the cursor
won't move. Use the even numbered keys to "pull down" and "release" menus
or to move between menu selections. Use the ENTER key to make a selection.

Don't press the NUM LOCK key. The program knows when to expect numeric
values and when to look for cursor controls.

THE MAP

The map is an isometric view of the space surrounding the Kiffryn's Cats
Cluster. The XY plane is the Equatorial Plane of the Galaxy with X
increasing spinward and Y increasing outward. The Z axis indicates distance
"above" (toward galactic north) or "below" the Equatorial Plane.

ATARI ST VERSION:

The XY plane is marked off in 5 light year squares. Black square indicate
the approximate location of star systems as they would be seen by an
observer positioned north of the Equatorial Plane. This makes it easier to
correlate the isometric map with the Route Map.

Distances north (above) or south of (below) the Equatorial Plane are shown
with color coded elevation dots. Gray dots are north of the plane and green
dots are south. The dots are spaced at 2 light year intervals.

Systems are shown as large dots with small rectangles nearby. Unexplored
systems are white, League systems are gold and Republic systems are red.
When League ships are in a system, the rectangle will be shown in gold and
contain a dark task force marker. A Republican presence in a system will be
shown with a red rectangle. If the system contains both League and Republic
ships, the box will contain a white 'X' on a blue background. 

IBM PC XT/AT VERSION:

NOTE: The colors mentioned here refer to the default colors used in the CGA
mode. Your color scheme may differ.

The XY plane is marked off in squares. Each square represents a distance of
5 light years. The approximate distance of systems above or below the
Equatorial Plane is shown by the length of the line connecting it to the XY
plane of the map.

Systems are shown as large dots with small rectangles nearby. Unexplored
systems are green, League systems are yellow and Republic systems are red.
When League ships are in a system, the rectangle will contain a yellow task
force marker. A Republican presence in a system will be shown with a red
marker. If the system contains both League and Republic ships, the box will
contain a green 'X'.

				4

The menu bar at the top of the screen will change during the course of the
turn to reflect the options available to you and the large dialog box at
the bottom of the screen is used for general information and prompts.

NOTE: Information on the map which concerns your opponent's task forces, 
systems, etc. will only be as current as the last contact with them. See
"Special Ops" and "Exploring a System" for details on scouting.

THE QUICK SYSTEM DISPLAY

You can get an overview of the condition of a star system during your
Movement or Economics Phase simply by selecting it.

ATARI ST VERSION:

Select the system by pointing to it and clicking the left mouse button. The
Quick System Display will appear below the map and will disappear as soon
as you move the mouse.

IBM PC XT/AT VERSION:

The map cursor will appear as a circle which you can position over a system
with the cursor keys (be sure NUM LOCK is off). Select the system with the
ENTER key.

The left half of the display is devoted to general information about the
system, its current condition and its potential for growth. This is shown
with four pie charts:

SYSTEM HABITABILITY AND FARM DEPLOYMENT

SLICE 1
number of farms deployed +99
Atari ST & EGA............Green
CGA.......................Red

This gives an idea of how the system's food output compares to an "ideal"
production rate. The bigger the slice, the more food the system is
producing.

Slice 2
(system habitability-farms) +99
Atari ST & EGA...........Black
CGA......................Black

This slice shows you how much room there is to expand agriculturally. If
the farms +99 slice is small and this slice is large, the system hasn't
really been exploited agriculturally.

The remaining slice is simply the "non-habitable" fraction of the system.

SYSTEM ORGANICS AND REFINERY DEPLOYMENT

SLICE 1
number of refineries +99
Atari ST & EGA.........Red
CGA....................Red

This slice shows how the refinery output of this system compares to the
ideal.

Slice 2
(system organics rating-refineries)
+99
Atari ST & EGA.........Black
CGA....................Black

This is an indication of the untapped organic resources of the untrapped
organic resources in the system. If this slice is large and the refineries
+99 slice is small, then the system has unrealized potential.

				5

SYSTEM METALS AND MINE DEPLOYMENT

SLICE 1
number of mines +99
Atari ST & EGA...........Gray
CGA......................Green

Like its farming and organics counterparts, this slice give an indication
of how this system's mining output compares to the ideal.

SLICE 2
(system metals rating-mines)+99
Atari ST & EGA..........Black
CGA.....................Black

This slice shows the unused mining potential of the system.

SYSTEM INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT

SLICE 1
number of factories +99
Atari ST & EGA.........Blue
CGA....................Green

This slice gives an indication of how the system's industrial output
compares to the ideal.

SLICE 2
(99-factories)+99
Atari ST & EGA.........Black
CGA....................Black

This is the unused industrial potential of the system.

NOTE: A "+" symbol in a pie chart indicates additional resource production
due to the some special characteristic of the system. This is a good thing.
A "*" symbol indicates the presence of Spiders in the system. This isn't.

The right half of the Quick System Display is occupied by three boxes:

THE POPULATION BOX shows the number of earthlike, protected and belt
colonies in the system as well as the total system population. For the
colonies, each "man" symbol equals one colony of that type. For total
population, each "man" symbol represents 1000 people. Lines under the
symbols represent powers of 10. For example, one double underlines symbol
followed by seven underlined symbols next to "KPop" would indicate a total
population in the system of (1 X 10 2 + 7 X 10 1) X 100=170000 people.

THE ARMY BOX will contain a number of smaller boxes. Each of these is a
deployment site that can contain one military unit. Any military units
deployed in the system will appear in these squares.

THE NAVY BOX will show one symbol (similar to the task force markers used
on the map) for each friendly ship in the system. The ships aren't
differentiated as to size or condition and no more than 90 ships can be
shown. If this box is completely full, you've got most of your fleet here
and probably don't need to count ship symbols anyway.

Above the Population Box is a row of small flag symbols. The number of
flags here indicates the loyalty of the system to the owning player.

NOTE: Just like the map, the accuracy of this display is only as good as
your last contact. Unless you own the system, if you haven't had ships here
lately,  don't take this information too literally.

				6

PROMPTS

Sometimes the program will pause (to give you a chance to read a message,
etc.) and wait for you to give it the OK to continue.

ATARI ST VERSION:

The computer will beep and display a mouse icon at the far right of the
Main Dialog Box. Press the left mouse button to continue.

IBM PC XT/AT VERSION:

The computer will beep and display a "key" symbol ("<>") at the far right
of the Main Dialog Box. Press any key to continue.

THE TURN SEQUENCE

Each game turn represents three months (one quarter) and is divided into
three phases with the People's Holy Republic going first in each of the
first two phases. The Resolutions Phase is simultaneous and executed
entirely by the computer.

The order of events in a game turn is:

GAME SAVE
P.H.R. ECONOMICS PHASE
LEAGUE ECONOMICS PHASE
P.H.R. MOVEMENT PHASE
LEAGUE MOVEMENT PHASE
RESOLUTIONS PHASE

THE ECONOMICS PHASE

This is where you'll do all your economic planning, expansion of industrial
facilities, production of ships and military units, etc.. Although the
actual work in this phase gets done by way of the Econ menu, bear in mind
that a great deal of useful information can be gleaned from the other
menus, particularly the Assign menu.

THE MOVEMENT PHASE

During the movement phase, you'll issue orders for any covert operations,
move ships, passengers and cargo between systems, organize task forces and
transfer ships between commands. If you're playing one of the long
scenarios, the act of movement into a system occupied by your opponent
isn't necessarily an invitation to open war. Check the scenario
descriptions for details.

THE RESOLUTIONS PHASE

All command level combat, ship-to-ship combat, assaults, exploration,
production,  maintenance, covert operations and calendar functions take
place during the Resolutions Phase. The computer will also calculate and
display current victory levels.

If Command Level combat occurred during the quarter, the computer will
display a report of "tonnage hit" for both sides. The numbers displayed
represent the number of cargo and assault systems damaged.

In the long scenarios, there will be a chance in this phase that unplanned
war will break out after the fourth quarter of 2330.

SAVING A GAME

At the beginning of each turn, you'll have the opportunity to save the game
in progress.

ATARI ST VERSION:

Select the appropriate button in the dialog box, when it appears, with the
left mouse button. If you choose to save the game, a standard file dialog
box will appear. The computer will automatically create a new save file
name based on the current game time. For example, if you save the game in
the 3rd quarter of

				7

2337, the default save file name will be "SC032337.DAT". You can change
this name if you like.

IBM PC XT/AT VERSION:

If you decide to save a game, you'll be prompted to insert your save disk.
Tell the computer which drive to use. You'll be shown how much free space
the disk has and asked to confirm your drive selection. The computer will
automatically create a save file name based on the current game turn. If
you save the game in the third quarter of 2337, the default file name will
be "SC032337.DAT". If you like, you may change the file name, but not the
extension, before pressing ENTER to save the game.

ENDING A GAME

The game will automatically end after the number of turns specified in the
scenario you're playing or if certain scenario specific conditions are met.
The computer will total victory levels for both sides and enter a limited
two- player mode so that both sides' systems and remaining forces can be
examined. You can select End Game from the General Menu at any time during
your turn. The computer will allow you to end the game with current victory
levels.

3.0 MOVEMENT AND COMBAT

"In space there are no battle lines, no convenient bits of terrain to help
delineate the edges of contested territory. There are only skill and
technology. Fall behind in either one and you lose. Lag in both and you
lose without knowing why."

Raspian Bez (codename "R.E.Lee"), Fleet Admiral Ret.

TASK FORCES

Task forces are the basic unit around which your fleet is organized. Each
side has up to 36 task forces at its disposal with three (33, 35 and 36)
normally reserved as holding forces for ships under repair. Read "Command
Autonomy" in section 3, for more information on the repair task forces.

Although it's possible for ships assigned to the Escort and Raiding
Commands (see "Commands") to engage in limited combat, the real action is
in the Fleet. Only ships assigned to task forces may engage in ship-to-ship
combat or launch assaults on enemy held systems.

MISSIONS

There are three types of mission available to task forces: Transport,
Attack and Reserve. Although their names are more or less self explanatory,
each mission has unique features.

Task forces on Attack missions will attempt to engage any opposing ships in
the system they occupy if hostilities have broken out.

Task forces on Transport Missions will not engage in any aggressive action
unless they're in an enemy held system and they're carrying one or more
military units. If they are, they will attempt a space to ground assault
(see "Space to Ground Assaults").

Task forces with reserve missions will not attempt to engage opposing
ships, even during open war. They will, however, defend themselves if
attacked. This means that only side needs to be on an attack mission in a
system for combat to break out.

				8

TRANSFERS VS REASSIGNMENT

When two active friendly task forces occupy the same system, they may
exchange ships freely with no delay. This is a transfer. You may also
transfer ships in an inactive task force (effectively splitting one task
force into two smaller ones). If the receiving task force isn't in the same
system, it will be moved. Reassignment of a ship can occur in two ways.
First, if you send a ship from one task force to a force in a different
system, that's a reassignment and the ship will spend 1-4 turns in transit
before arriving at its destination. Second, any movement of a ship to or
from a command is a reassignment and suffers the same delay.

CARGO

Any ship equipped with either cargo capacity or assault capacity can carry
cargo. A ship can load any moveable unit (These are listed in the Moveable
Units section of the System Report) whose size is less than or equal to its
remaining current capacity. You may load any combination of moveable units
as long as the ship's capacity isn't exceeded. You may not split cargo or
passengers between ships.

Damage due to combat or normal wear and tear may reduce the capacity of a
ship below the combined sizes of items it's already carrying. If this
happens, the ship will still be able to continue transporting them, but may
be unable to reload any units it unloads. This happens frequently with
Exploration Teams since their large size takes up every cubic centimeter of
cargo space in the biggest freighters and damage to even one of their
transport's cargo modules will strand them until repairs can be made.

Assault capacity is identical to cargo capacity with the added ability to
launch military units in assaults. All military units, except Special
Forces,  must be launched into combat from assault rather than cargo boxes.
Special Forces may be launched from any cargo carrier.

THE TRANSPORT POOL

The Transport Pool is essentially your Merchant Marine. The computer will
automatically total all undamaged cargo/assault capacity in the pool and
use it to distribute surplus raw materials among your systems.

Ships in the Transport Pool, don't require maintenance, but are subject to
attack by ships in the enemy's Raiding Command once hostilities begin. If
Command Autonomy is enabled, any damaged ships will be automatically sent
to Task Force 33 for repairs. Once they're fully functional, they'll be
reassigned to the Transport Pool.

COMMANDS

There are four major commands in Stellar Crusade: Training Command, Escort
Command, Raiding Command and Special Support Command, each with its own
specific mission.

TRAINING COMMAND

This is where new ships and repaired ships not automatically reassigned to
one of the other commands are sent. Ships in Training Command don't require
maintenance and can never be attacked. They are, in effect, your strategic
reserve.

				9

ESCORT COMMAND

Ships assigned to Escort Command are tasked with the protection of your
Transport pool. Any ships in the enemy Raiding Command will be attacked by
your escorts during the Command Level Combat in the Resolutions Phase,
assuming hostilities have broken out. Ships in Escort Command require no
maintenance, but can be damaged in combat. If Command Autonomy is enabled,
damaged ships will be automatically sent to Task Force 35 for repair.

It's a good idea to install a larger than normal proportion of Anti-i
weapons on escorts, since the majority of raiders will be i-Space drive
equipped.

RAIDING COMMAND

Ships in Raiding Command spend their time trying to disrupt the enemy's
shipping with hit-and-run attacks on his Transport Pool. Like escorts,
raiders require no maintenance, but are subject to attack. Damaged ships in
Raiding Command will be sent to Task Force 36 if Command Autonomy is
enabled.

Because of the nature of convoy raiding, ships equipped with i-Space drives
perform particularly well here, don't forget that most of your enemy's
escort's will have Anti-i weapons.

SPECIAL SUPPORT COMMAND

One support ship must be available per Special Ops point spent on
reconnaissance of enemy systems. Ships in the Special Support Command don't
require maintenance, but do suffer a 2% attrition rate each turn. In other
words,  although they can't be damaged, they do have a 2% chance each turn
of being lost altogether. Use old and/or inexpensive ships for this duty.

COMMAND AUTONOMY

When command autonomy is enabled, damaged ships in the Transport Pool,
Escort Command and Raiding Command will automatically be reassigned to task
forces 33, 35 and 36, respectively, for repairs. As soon as ships in these
task forces are fully functional, they will be reassigned to duty.

Normally, command autonomy should kept "on", since it frees you from having
to constantly check the conditions of ships in your commands. On occasion,
however,  you may want to specifically control your repair schedule. If you
do, disable command autonomy.

TRANSIT

When you reassign a ship, there will be a delay of 1-4 turns while the
paperwork clears, new crews are trained and assigned, the ship is moved and
the wheels of bureaucracy grind steadily along. During that time, the ship
will be "in transit" to its new post.

You can check the destinations and planned arrival dates of ships in
transit by selecting Ships in Transit from the Assign menu during your
movement phase.

GROUND FORCES

There are four types of military unit in Stellar Crusade: Security Forces,
Light Regulars, Heavy Regulars and Special Forces.

Security Forces are lightly equipped units composed mainly of reservists,
local militia and other irregulars. Because of this, Security Forces are
best applied

				10

in a defensive posture.

Regulars are the backbone of your ground forces. Well equipped and trained,
they perform well both offensively and defensively. The difference between
Light and Heavy Regulars is essentially one of equipment.

Special Forces are small, elite units trained in independent operation. As
such,  they require little in the way of fleet support in an assault on a
system and may be launched from any ship that can carry cargo.

MOVING A TASK FORCE

During your movement phase you'll have the opportunity to move any of your
active task forces between systems, subject to the limitations of range and
the task force's condition. The movement range of a task force is equal to
that of its slowest ship and only ready task forces can move. If a task
force isn't in a friendly system, there's a chance it will fail to become
ready. Should this happen, you'll have to reassign its ships to another
task force to get them out. When you select Move Task Force from the Move
menu, the computer will prompt you to select a system of origin. Choose the
system in the same way you would select a system to examine. Starting with
the lowest numbered ready task force in the system, the computer will show
you task force number, size, commander,  mission and total cargo in the
large dialog box at the bottom of the screen. You'll have the option to
skip each task force.

If you want to move the task force, simply select a destination system. If
it's within range, the computer will ask you to confirm the move (once the
task force is in i-Space, you can't rescind the order). Moving a task force
to its current location is not a move.

You can only move a task force once in a game turn, but you can initiate a
movement dialog as many times as you like. As long as you don't confirm a
move,  you can change your mind indefinitely.

COMBAT

There are two levels of conflict in the game. If limited hostilities are in
effect, only Command Level combat will occur. This is essentially
skirmishing and interdiction aimed at hampering the enemy's economy.

Once open hostilities have broken out, any task force with an attack
mission in a system occupied by enemy ships will automatically engage. This
means war. NOTE: Once war breaks out, a "crossed swords" symbol will appear
at the far right of the map display.

WEAPONS

There are four types of weapon used in the game: short range Anti-r, long
range Anti-r, short range Anti-i and long range Anti-i. The specifics of
each type are detailed in section 5, Ship Systems and Classes, but it
should be mentioned here that ships in i-Space can only be attacked by
Anti-i weapons. Also, long range weapons (both offensive and defensive) are
expendable, that is, each long range weapon becomes "damaged" when it's
fired.

				11

COMMAND LEVEL COMBAT

Command level combat consists of hit-and-run raider strikes on enemy
shipping with the intent of damaging their Transport Pool enough to prevent
complete distribution of surplus raw materials.

Ships assigned to your Raiding Command will each attempt to locate a ship
in the enemy Transport Pool. Each raider has a 5% chance of finding each
enemy transport and will attack the first ship it finds.

Raiders equipped with i-Space drives will automatically inflict 1 to 10
points of damage for each short range Anti-r weapon they mount. If a raider
is not equipped with i-Space drives, it has a 10% x current effectiveness
chance to score a hit with each short range Anti-r weapon and each weapon
will do only 1 point of damage. Note that raiders never use long range
weapons. If you design a ship purely as a raider, don't mount long range
weapons on it.

After all your raiders have attacked, ships in the enemy's Escort Command
will attempt to track them down and retaliate. Each escort has a 4% chance
to locate each raider and will attack the first one it finds.

If an escort is attacking a target with a functional i-Space drive, it will
fire its Anti-i weapons. Each Anti-i weapon has a 10% x current
effectiveness chance to hit. Long range weapons do 3 points of damage and
short range weapons do 1 point.

If an escort is attacking a raider operating in real space, it will use its
Anti-r weapons with the same probability of hit. Short range weapons will
do 1 point of damage. Long range weapons will do 5 to 15 points of damage,
but, if the target is equipped with point defense systems, there's a 7% x
number of point defense systems chance that each long range weapon which
achieves a lock on will be shot down before impact.

Command Level Combat is mutual, that is your raiders will attack enemy
shipping and his raiders will attack yours.

SHIP TO SHIP COMBAT

At the end of a Movement Phase (after hostilities have begun), the computer
will check for opposing task forces occupying the same system. If any task
force in a contested system has an attack mission, combat will occur. Each
battle is resolved separately and you'll have the opportunity to control
the large scale actions of engaged forces at the beginning of each hour
after the first.

MISSIONS AND FORMATIONS

During the battle, the forces of both sides will be displayed in formations
appropriate to their missions. The individual task force commanders will
decide what formation to use, but, generally, task forces with attack
missions will be deployed in wedge shaped formations. Transport forces will
be deployed in linear formations and reserves will usually be disorganized.

As long as both sides have task forces with attack missions in the battle,
only those forces will actually be engaged. This allows you to screen
transport and reserve forces during an engagement. If all of your attack
forces have been eliminated, any of your other forces can be engaged. You
can't change the missions of your task forces during combat.

				12

LONG RANGE COMBAT

Combat always begins at long range and will continue at long range until
all long range weapons on both sides are exhausted. Not all of a task
force's long range weapons will be fired at once. The actual number depends
on the commander's attack rating, the total number of available targets and
the number of long range weapons remaining in the task force.

Each long range weapon has a (10 x firing ship effectiveness + 10 x number
of scanners) x 1% chance to lock on to an enemy ship. A long range weapon
that manages to hit will inflict 10 to 15 points of damage. This is enough
to transform even the largest cruisers into rapidly expanding spheres of
high energy particles.

Once the computer has determined how many long range weapons were able to
lock on, the opposing ships' long range defenses will attempt to intercept
inbound weapons. Each long range defensive weapon has a 3% x firing ship
effectiveness x force commander's defensive rating chance to intercept an
incoming weapon. Intercepted weapons are destroyed. Notice that long range
defenses have the advantage of being able to protect all friendly ships in
the engagement.

Any long range weapons that survive interception will hit their target
ships unless stopped by point defenses. A ship can only use point defensive
systems to protect itself. The probability that a ship's point defenses
will stop an incoming long range weapon is 14% x number of functioning
point defense systems (maximum 70%).

SHORT RANGE COMBAT

When the engaged task forces have exhausted their supply of long range
weapons,  the battle shifts to short range. Short range combat will
continue until the end of a round in which no ship receives a hit. This
means that battles can end with surviving ships on both sides.

Up to 5 short range weapons per ship will fire at the enemy per round with
a 10% x firing ship effectiveness chance to hit. Each hit will do 1 point
of damage to a randomly selected target ship.

DAMAGE

Each point of damage inflicted on a ship incapacitates one of its systems.
If a ship suffers more damage than the total of its remaining operable
systems, it's destroyed.

If all of the command modules in a task force are destroyed, the task force
commander is assumed to have perished in the line of duty and the task
force will be placed under Central Command's control. A new (and unproven)
commander will be promoted to take his place.

Damaged ships can only be repaired by reassigning them to a task force in a
system where spares are available. If the "Maintenance and Supply" reality
level is enabled, you'll have to build spares to support your repair
activities. Otherwise, spares are assumed to be universally available in
systems you control.

AGGRESSIVENESS

At the beginning of each hour after the first, you'll be given the
opportunity to order your commanders to engage aggressively. If you do, the
probability of achieving hits / lockons on both sides increases
significantly giving the superior force a slight edge.

				13

DISENGAGEMENT

At the beginning of each hour after the first, you'll have the chance to
order your forces to disengage. In a two player game, the computer will
also ask which force wants to break off.

Disengagement is never automatic. The probability of a successful
disengagement is based on the relative quality of the opposing forces'
commanders. All things being equal, the attempt has about a 60% chance of
being successful. If disengagement succeeds, all task forces in the system,
on the disengaging side, will be given a reserve mission and combat will
end. Any assault that may have been planned will be aborted.

If you disengage from combat and then fail to move your ships out of the
contested system, the enemy will be able to attack them again next turn.
Don't forget to move them.

CAUTION: If your task force loses, it may not be able to move next turn.
That is, it will show as having already moved. The only way to save the
remnants of such a beleaguered force is to use reassignment. Reassigning
ships in this way will immediately remove them from the embattled system,
but will also take them out of action for the usual 1-4 turns. See
"Transfers vs Reassignment" in section 3.

SPACE TO GROUND ASSAULTS

Holding the space around a system is only half the battle. Even in the 24th
Century, to own a system you still have to own the dirt.

LAUNCHING AN ASSAULT

If you have ships with a transport mission in an enemy system after ship to
ship combat is resolved, the computer will check for military units in
their holds. Only special forces units may be launched from normal cargo
holds. All other units must be launched from assault holds. If a ship's
cargo or assault capacity has been reduced due to damage, it can still
participate in the assault, but it may need repair before it can load
troops again.

If there are military units eligible to assault the system, the computer
will automatically launch them from their transports according to the
following priorities:

1. Task forces unload, in ascending order.
2. Transports unload in the same order in which they're listed when you
   examine their task force.
3. Units will unload in the same order in which they're listed in their
   transport's Cargo Available for Unloading box.

Units will be launched until each deployment site is filled or you run out
of units.

GROUND COMBAT

Once troops have landed, ground combat begins. Each day, the computer will
display the current state of the battle for the system and calculate the
each side's probability of destroying an opposing unit. This is done by
adding the combat strength of each friendly unit in the system and
multiplying the result by 1% for each point of the assault commander's
Assault Rating (for attacking units) or System Defensibility (for defending
units). The combat strength of a

				14

unit is equal to strength x capability. The commander of the highest
numbered task force in the system will be the assault commander.

At the end of every day of fighting, system habitability, farms and
population will be reduced by 1 each. If the battle continues long enough,
it's possible to completely devastate a system.

Eventually, one of two things will happen. Either all military units in the
system will be destroyed or only one player will have units left. If the
only player to have units remaining in the system will change ownership
with the following effects:

Loyalty is set to 1

Half of all local spares and rations will be captured. The rest will be
lost. All build points accumulated in local shipyards and training centers
will be lost.

All local shipyards and training centers will be reduced in size by 1 to 20
points.

All local intelligence centers will be destroyed.

COMMANDERS

As supreme commander of your government, you have a large pool of willing
leadership at your disposal. Some of your commanders are good. Some aren't.
Some are specialists. The only way you'll know is to test them in battle.
Until then, the only thing you can be sure of is their age.

During the Movement Phase, you can look at a summary of your commanders by
choosing Commanders from the Assign menu. Each commander is rated for ship
to ship attack, ship to ship defense and space to ground assault. Their
ratings will range from 1 (incompetent) to 5 (brilliant).

For security purposes, none of your commanders' real names are used.
Instead,  each one has been assigned a codename. League commanders use
codenames borrowed from the great military leaders of Terra's past.
Republic commanders prefer names stolen from Old Earth biblical literature.

Task forces without commanders are assigned to Central Command. All task
forces without commanders are assigned to Central Command. All task forces
under Central Command authority operate with attack, defense and assault
ratings of 2.

SPECIAL OPS

Special Operations are used to disrupt your enemy's economy and gather
information in places the Fleet can't reach. Although you can allocate more
than 10 build points to your intelligence centers, you may only invest 10
total operations options in fomenting rebellion and system reconnaissance.
Any additional points spent on intelligence centers will go automatically
into internal security.

FOMENT REBELLION

By encouraging popular unrest in enemy systems, you can reduce their
loyalty. You'll need a support ship from Special Support Command for each
option you allocate toward this activity. Well garrisoned systems are
virtually immune to this kind of activity.

SYSTEM RECONNAISSANCE

Sometimes it's not practical to send ships into enemy territory to update
your

				15

files on a system. This activity allows you to gather information covertly.
One support ship must be available for each option you allocate toward
System Reconnaissance.

INTERNAL SECURITY

This counterintelligence activity makes it more difficult for enemy special
operations to succeed. Any unallocated options are automatically assigned
to this activity.

COMBAT SCENARIOS

		              STOP!

You've read enough rules for a while. The two combat-only scenarios
"Operation Gold River" and "Plan Jericho" are described in section 6. Play
one (or both) of them to get a feel for the mechanics of managing your
fleet before you move on to the additional complexities of exploration and
economics.

4.0 EXPLORATION AND COLONIZATION

"...so reach for Icarus! Reach for the stars!! Phase II homesites from 10
square kilometers are still available!!! Call before midnight and you could
win a trip for two to..."

EXPLORING A SYSTEM

If you have a loaded exploration team in an unexplored system during the
Resolutions Phase, it will be automatically unloaded and the system claimed
in your name if the carrying ship is on a transport mission. The team will
report statistics for habitability, metals, organics, deployment sites,
defensibility and special characteristics. The loyalty of the newly
acquired system is always 10. Only the owner will know what a newly claimed
system is like. Use System Reconnaissance to check on your opponent's
systems. If both sides try to explore a system at the same time, each side
has an equal chance to succeed, but there's a 20% chance that neither will.
Only one or the other will actually be able to explore the system.

SPECIAL SYSTEM CHARACTERISTICS

There is a possibility that a newly explored system will have some unusual
distinguishing feature. Only the game effects of these special
characteristics are discussed here. Read the glossary for a more complete
description.

GASWORLDERS

The system will add 3 extra units of organics to your surplus goods pool
each turn for as long as your hold it.

OORT PEOPLE

The system will add 3 extra units of metals to your surplus goods pool per
turn while you control it.

ABORIGINES

The system will add 3 extra units of food to your surplus goods pool per
turn while you own it.

PALEOTECHNOLOGY

The system will add 2 points per turn (instead of 1) to your research pool
as long as it's under your control.

SPIDERS

Normally, the population of a world will grow spontaneously, but a system
infested with spiders will be unable to grow until the spiders are
eliminated. Each military unit deployed in the system increases your
chances of eradicating a spider infestation. You can still add to the local
population by importing

				16

colonies.

COLONIZING A SYSTEM

As the population grows on your home worlds, larger and larger numbers of
people will seek the opportunities offered by the frontier and colonies
will become available for transport to new worlds. Essentially,
colonization is nothing more than transporting people to newly explored
systems. The trick is to turn an isolated group of a few thousand
struggling colonists stranded in an undeveloped system into a productive
industrial concern. Read section 8, "Designer's Notes" for hints on
building successful colonies.

Once a system is colonized, two things will happen automatically. First,
unless the system is infested with spiders, the population will begin to
grow by itself. Second, the system's habitability will begin to gradually
increase as people begin altering the environment to suit themselves.

EARTHLIKE COLONIES

The teeming masses are a fertile source of willing, if ill prepared,
prospective colonists. Earthlike colonies are easy to transport, but
require a habitability of at least 65 to deploy.

PROTECTED COLONIES

Protected colonies are usually financed by private corporations or well
organized co-ops. They're well equipped and able to withstand the rigors of
less favorable worlds. the minimum habitability for protected colonies is
35.

BELT COLONIES

Equipped for environments up to and including total vacuum, belt colonies
are expensive to field and difficult to transport. They can survive
anywhere.

KITS

Kits are prefabricated, pre-packaged processing facilities that can be used
to get new colonies started on the road to industrialization. There are
four kinds of kit: farm, mine, refinery and factory. Each kit, when
deployed, converts to one point of capacity of the appropriate type.

When you unload a kit from a transport, it automatically deploys. Be
careful not to unload a kit accidentally. They're expensive to replace and
vital to the expansion of your new colonies.

NOTE: Kits provide you with a method for extending the resource capacity of
a system beyond its original level. If a system is fully exploited, that
is, its deployed farm, refinery and mine values are equal to its
habitability, organics and refinery ratings, you can still produce more of
these raw materials by deploying kits in the system. This is expensive
(extremely), but it does allow you to force the output of a system beyond
the norm.

EXPLORATION SCENARIOS
		
			       STOP!

At this point you know enough to play the Exploration scenario. It's a good
idea to try your hand at this one before moving on to the campaign games.

				17

5. ECONOMICS

"A leader's greatest fear is not that he will make errors in fiscal policy,
but that his enemies will notice them."

First Comrade Thrender Grone to the Committee on Internal Security,
Brotherhood,  2297.

ALLOCATIONS

Each turn, you'll have the opportunity to direct the growth of your economy
and military by "spending" build points. The process is broken into three
steps for each system you control: Build Point Production, Build Production
Facilities,  Allocate Build Points.

The computer will take you through each step in order, displaying a
separate page for each. Once you commit points in each step, you won't be
able to take them back, but, at the end of the Allocate Build Points step,
you'll be able to cancel the entire allocation for the system and start
again. Once you commit the allocations for a system, you can't redo them
later.

Selection of systems can be done manually, or you can let the computer
choose systems for you. This is a good idea when you have several systems
that need attention and you don't want to forget one. If you try to exit
the Economics Phase without doing any allocations, the computer will warn
you and prevent you from going on.

RAW MATERIALS

There are three basic types of raw material: food, metals and organics. A
system will produce these based on the capacity of its farms, mines and
refineries,  within limits set by system loyalty. A system will produce 10%
of its maximum output of the three types of raw materials for each point of
loyalty, so a loyalty of 10 translates to full production.

Raw materials will be automatically used by any factories in the system. If
the system's factories in the system. If the system's factories aren't able
to consume all of the available raw materials, any remainder will be put
into the Surplus Goods pool for use next turn, if you have sufficient
capacity in your Transport Pool.

BUILD POINTS

Each factory in a system is capable of producing one build point. To do so,
the factory uses one point. To do so, the factory uses one point each of
the three basic raw materials. Factories will automatically use locally
available raw materials until they're exhausted. If you still have ideal
factories, you can draw from the Surplus Goods Pool to supply them.

Functionally, this means that you can have a heavily industrialized system
that's low on raw materials produce build points with goods imported by
your Transport pool. Because it's important not to neglect your Transport
Pool, it's a good idea to check the suggestions provided with the Economic
Report to see if you have enough transport to move your surplus goods.

BUILDING PRODUCTION FACILITIES

When you look at a System Report, you'll see current sizes and build costs
for every type of production facility in the system. This includes
shipyards,  training centers, intelligence centers, farms, mines,
refineries and factories. If you look closely, you'll notice that the cost
of building farms, mines and refineries depends on the system's
habitability, metals and organics ratings.

				18

The higher the rating, the lower the cost of the corresponding facility.
This means that some systems are valuable as specialized sources of raw
materials. Other production facilities carry a fixed cost of 10 points.

Building or expanding a production facility requires a point of ideal
population for each facility built or point of increased capacity which
will then become employed (not idle). If a system doesn't have any idle
population, it won't be able to expand its industrial capacity.

ALLOCATING BUILD POINTS

Each turn, your systems' factories will produce a number of build points
which you can then allocate for expansion, spares, rations, ships, military
units and industrial kits.

A shipyard can be set to produce any one of the 20 classes available to you
or it can produce spares which are necessary to maintain your fleet. You
can change the class produced by a shipyard at any time, but any build
points already accumulated will be lost.

Training centers produce military units or rations. Rations are used to
maintain military units. Like shipyards, training center can produce only
one type of unit at a time.

Both shipyards and training centers will go through a partial refit when
you change the type of their product. The first unit or ship produced will
cost somewhere between 2 and 4 times the norm.

SPECIAL NOTE: If a system can't to acquire enough food (either through
production of local farms or via the transport pool), there's a chance that
food riots will break out. The system's loyalty will drop by one point for
each quarter that the rioting continues.

Once the rioting starts, you have two choices: let the rioting go on or
feed the population. Of course, you don't have to give them food, rubber
bullets and tear gas work almost as well. Deployed troops can stop rioting.

THE ECONOMIC REPORT

The Economic Report is a planning aid for resource allocation. When you
select Report from the Econ menu, the computer will present you with a set
of overlayed line graphs depicting the output (over time) of various
critical economic factors. It will also suggest steps to take in order to
maximize your industrial output.

You can look at one graph at a time by selecting Options, Clear Graph and
then the line you want to see. You can use the same technique to look at
the relationships of specific economic factors by clearing the graph and
then overlaying two or more lines.

It's also possible to get an overview of your economics situation by
choosing Current Data. The bar graph displayed by this option can help you
see large scale imbalances at a glance.

SHIP CLASSES

Although both sides begin the game with several "standard" ship classes,
you have ample room to design new classes to suit your own style of play.
You may modify a class whenever you like, and the revised design will be
used on all subsequent builds of that class with no effect on older ships.
However,  any

				19

ships of the revised class which are still under construction will be
scrapped and all build points invested in them lost.

NOTE: The computer identifies classes by number, not name. If you use
duplicate class names, you won't be able to tell them apart, but the
computer will.

SHIP SYSTEMS

There are 12 types of ship system available, each with unique uses and
limitations:

LONG RANGE ANTI-R WEAPON

These weapons are the most devastating in the game. Any ship can be
destroyed by a single hit from a long range Anti-r weapon. Their
disadvantage is their expendability. Once fired, the become "damaged" and
must be replenished during repair.

RESTRICTIONS: Only effective against ships in real space. Firing ship must
have at least one r-Scan system operational.

LONG RANGE ANTI-I WEAPON

Like their real space counterparts, these weapons can severely damage a
ship and are expendable.

RESTRICTIONS: Only effective against ships in i-Space. Firing ship must
have at least one i-Scan system operational.

SHORT RANGE ANTI-R WEAPON

Not as destructive as a long range weapon, but able to fire indefinitely.

RESTRICTIONS: Only effective against ships is real space. May not fire
until all long range combat is complete.

SHORT RANGE ANTI-I WEAPON

Similar to short range Anti-r weapons.

RESTRICTIONS: Only effective against ships in i-space. May not fire until
all long range combat is complete.

LONG RANGE DEFENSE

These systems can intercept and destroy incoming long range weapons
regardless of target.

RESTRICTIONS: Like all long range weapons, these are expendable and must be
replenished in repair.

POINT DEFENSE

Last ditch defensive systems used to destroy incoming long range weapons
targeted at the firing ship.

RESTRICTIONS: May only fire at weapons about to hit the firing ship.

R SCAN

Required equipment for any ship that mounts Long Range Anti-r weapons.
Having more than one scanner increases the probability of a lock on.

I SCAN

Acquires targets in i space for Long Range Anti-i weapons. Additional
scanners increase the chance of achieving a lock on.

COMMAND MODULE

This is the C3I center for a task force. As long as one ship in the task
force has a command module, it may have a commander. When the last command
module in a task force is destroyed, the commander is assumed to be killed
and a replacement is promoted back at Central Command. The replacement is
not assigned to the force.

				20

RESTRICTIONS: Task forces without a command module equipped ship will
always be under the control of Central Command.

I-SPACE DRIVE

This variant of the standard interstellar drive, while bulky and expensive,
allows a ship to "slip under" real space into i-Space. This makes it
difficult to detect by normal means. As a result, the vast majority of
convoy raiders are i-Space equipped.

RESTRICTIONS: Ships in i-Space can only be attacked by Anti-i weapons.
i-Space Drives are extremely bulky.

CARGO CAPACITY

One point of cargo capacity allows a ship to carry one size point worth of
cargo.

RESTRICTIONS: It's not possible to split a large cargo among several ships,
so only the largest of transports can carry units like exploration teams.

ASSAULT CAPACITY

This is cargo capacity with the additional ability to launch military units
into combat.

The largest ship current technology can produce will contain 15 systems
from the list above. With the exception of i-Space Drives and long range
weapons, all systems take up the same amount of space. Ships equipped with
i-Space Drives may only mount two other systems. Long range weapons and
defensive systems take up two "spaces".

PRODUCTION

After build point allocation, the computer will resolve production
according to the following rules:

SHIPYARDS

Each shipyard will accumulate the number of build points you specified
toward production of a ship of the class (or spares) built there. If enough
build points have accumulated, a new ship will be placed in transit to
Training Command. If the shipyard is producing spares, one spare will be
added to the system's Spares Pool for each build point.

TRAINING CENTERS

Each training center will accumulate build points toward the type of unit
produced there. If a unit is produces and there's an empty site available,
it will be deployed. Otherwise, it will be held in reserve. Training
centers producing rations will add one ration point to the system's Rations
Pool for each build point.

INTELLIGENCE CENTERS

Each center will generate one operations option for each build point
allocated.

MAINTENANCE

If the "Maintenance and Training" reality level is enabled, the computer
will check all ships assigned to task forces for wear and tear. Every ship
system has roughly a 10% chance of failing each turn.

After checking for wear, the computer will attempt to repair all damaged
ships in friendly systems that have spares available. Task forces with
attack missions get highest priority and reserve missions wait until last.
Lower numbered task forces are repaired first. Each repaired system expends
one spare.

Military units lose one capability point each turn. If a unit is deployed
in a

				21

system where rations are available, two points of capability will be added
and one ration will be expended.

Units aboard ships can't receive rations. If you leave troops on their
transports long enough, they'll deteriorate into uselessness.

6.0 SCENARIOS

STANDARD VICTORY POINTS

The following standard victory point schedule is used in all scenarios
except he first two.

For each friendly system: (population + colonies) x loyalty + 100.

50 x (current effectiveness -4).

50 points per turn that a player occupies his opponent's home system. The
League home system is Alger. The Republic home system is Progress. Research
Pool + 10.

The first player to reach 750 wins immediately. If either player's total is
reduced to 20 or less, the other player wins immediately. In the unlikely
event of a simultaneous tie at 750, the P.H.R. wins.

OPERATION GOLD RIVER

"The conflict lasted far longer than anyone expected. Although the fighting
was largely limited to the Brotherhood - Ramage C - Kiffryn's Star
corridor,  destruction was extensive in the affected systems. By the time
it was over,  Brotherhood had changed hands four times." - The Midas War,
Fractal Press, 2349. This scenario picks up the action as the League is
preparing to launch "Operation Gold River", the assault on Brotherhood.
Play begins in 03/2345 and continues until 04/2347 (10 turns).

VICTORY CONDITIONS: Whoever controls Brotherhood at the end of the game
wins.

SPECIAL: There are no Economics Phases in this scenario. Actions will be
restricted to movement and combat.

PLAN JERICHO

"Each side faced the conflict with its own expectations. The P.H.R.'s 'Plan
Jericho' depended on the success of the feint at the Ramage Triad and, had
it succeeded, could have sounded the death knell for an unprepared League."
- The Doomed Jihad. Strategic Studies Insititute, 2352.

The Republic assault on the League borders comes in two prongs. The main
advance is directed at Glance's Star while a smaller force is preparing for
action in the Ramage Triad. Play begins in 04/2340 and ends in 04/2342.

VICTORY CONDITIONS: One victory point is awarded at the end of the game for
control of each of the following: Delta Felis, Epsilon Felis, Glance's
Star,  Bennet's Star, Kiffryn's Star, Ramage B, Ramage C and Brotherhood. A
tie results in a marginal Republic victory.

SPECIAL: There are no Economics Phases in this scenario. Actions will be
restricted to movement and combat.

EXPLORATION

"The first heady rush of expansion lasted only five years, but it was
exhilarating while it lasted. The border systems were rough, dirty and
usually

				22

hungry. Law was something that came with the Navy...and left with it.
Fortunes were made (and frequently stolen) on the frontier." - The First
Wave, Bothan & Walmer, 2348.

This scenario is set in the chaos of the early twenties. Expansion is it
word of the hour. Game play begins in 04/2320 and ends in 04/2324.

VICTORY CONDITIONS: In addition to the standard victory point schedule,
players will receive the following points:

For each friendly system other than Progress, Brotherhood, Unity, Alger or
Laird's Star: (population exclusive of colonies) x loyalty + 10.

Cargo capacity of the Transport Pool + 10.

SPECIAL: This scenario doesn't include an Economics Phase, but does include
pre programmed production to support colonial expansion.

THE WAR (historical)

The League was far more successful in its early attempts at colonization of
the cluster than the Republic. Not willing to admit that ideology didn't
cut much ice on the frontier, the Holy Bureau of Elders approved a campaign
against League shipping. Of course, the League responded in kind. It was
only a matter of time before the real shooting started.

The scenario begins in 04/2334 with the Republic's raiding campaign and
continues until the standard victory conditions are met (usually about 45
turns). Open warfare usually erupts somewhere between turns 6 and 18.

VICTORY CONDITIONS: STANDARD

SPECIAL: At difficulty levels above "challenging", initial P.H.R. farm,
mine and refinery deployment levels will be increased by about 3 points per
level.

THE WAR (alternate)

When the Terran Navy pulled out in 2330, nearly everyone expected
hostilities to break out overnight. That unhappy to break out overnight.
That unhappy eventuality was forestalled by the internal power struggle
that continued to cripple the P.H.R.. Here's what might have happened...

The scenario begins in 04/2331 with limited hostilities and continues until
the standard victory conditions are met (usually about 55 turns). Open
warfare will normally break out in 6 to 18 turns.

VICTORY CONDITIONS: STANDARD

SPECIAL: The same special conditions specified in the historical war apply
here.

THE SHORT CAMPAIGN

After the chaos of the twenties, the economies of the League and P.H.R. had
both stabilized. Territorial gains were well integrated and both sides felt
relatively secure. Of course, no government is really satisfied when fresh
territory is waiting to be claimed...

The Short Campaign begins in 04/2330 and continues until the standard
victory conditions are met (normally about 75 turns). The cluster is
currently at peace and you have a few years before friction will drive the
League and the Republic into war.

VICTORY CONDITIONS: STANDARD

SPECIAL: Initial P.H.R. naval forces will be increased by about 5 ships per

				23

difficulty level above "moderate". The additional ships will be small
transports and warships. Initial P.H.R. factory, farm, mine and refinery
deployment will be increased by about  each at levels above "challenging".

THE LONG CAMPAIGN

The 20's were marked by rapid expansion on both sides of the cluster
coupled with growing friction over territorial rights. Fortunately, the
Terran Navy's strict enforcement of the peace kept things quiet...until
they left.

This is the big one. The starting conditions of both sides are jumbled and
will require careful planning to reach stable productivity. Play begins in
04/2320 and ends when the standard victory conditions are met (around 100
turns).

VICTORY CONDITIONS: STANDARD

SPECIAL: The same special conditions specified in The Short Campaign apply
here.

7.0 SOLITAIRE VS TWO PLAYER MODE

In the two player mode, the computer will warn you with an alert box before
proceeding to the next player's phase. This allows you to exchange places
at the computer without worrying about seeing things you shouldn't.

Any game can be restarted in the two player mode, but only solitaire games
may be restarted in solitaire mode. The computer isn't smart enough to
handle the bizarre setups you might inflict on it.

8.0 DESIGNER'S NOTES

A typical long campaign of Stellar Crusade can be divided into three
distinct phases. First, players will explore as many stars as they can
reach, while trying to consolidate their starting industrial base.

Effective exploration will require careful planning. The typical
exploration task force should include at least one transport in addition to
the ship carrying the exploration team. Additional transports should be
loaded with spares. Once the exploration transport is damaged by "wear and
tear", it will not be able to reload the exploration team until it has been
repaired. It will probably be necessary to set up a bucket brigade of
transports to keep the exploration forces in spares. The People's Holy
Republic player should build a class of maximum size (15 cargo system)
transports as quickly as possible in order to explore and exploit his
neighborhood.

Neither player has a large supply of exploration teams to leave lying
around. While the computer will produce new exploration teams, the rate of
production is quite slow (one percent per quarter at any system with local
population of 250 thousand or more).

Next, the players will expand into the cluster. Only a very unlucky player
will fail to find a "nearly perfect" system near enough to his home system
for easy colonization. Generally, it will be a good idea to concentrated on
building up this system. Each player must identify the materials needed by
his society, and colonize systems were production of these materials will
be inexpensive.

				24

The most effective way of setting up a colony is to produce ten factory
kits for placement in a new system. Let your transport pool carry the
necessary goods to run colonial factories until they become self supporting
by producing local farms, mines and refineries.

If you know that you are going to be setting up a colony in a system but
don't have the resources yet, be sure to move at least one colony to the
system in order to begin building up the local habitability rating. Your
transports can move earthlike and protected colonies around a lot faster
than belt colonies. Concentrate on one colony system at a time to begin
with. You will not have the resources to do a good job on more than this.

It may be necessary to allow some slack in production at your original star
systems in order to free up raw materials for use in starting up your
colonies. Be sure to ship out enough population to support the buildup of
colonial industry. No facilities may be built if no idle population exists
locally to man them. Build the local colonial population up to around 100
thousand as quickly as possible.

If your planning is good, the colony should be self supporting in at least
one category of raw materials production by this time, and you can begin
building the next one if necessary. Be sure to build up your raw materials
production before building up factories, shipyards, etc., or you will end
up with a lot of idle production facilities.

Keep an eye on what the other player is producing at his shipyards. While
the ability to view the other player's current ship classes is not a
particularly reliable way to count current force strengths, it can be
useful in avoiding nasty surprises.

Depending on the distribution of resources in the cluster, the players will
probably end up fighting over some star system eventually. Campaigns must
be planned. Players should try to create a mix of large and small warship
types. Large (100+) pools of spares must be accumulated at the star systems
near the points of conflict.

Warships should be kept in Training, Escort, and Raiding Commands until
they are needed in task forces. Once warships are pulled out of the
commands and placed in active task forces, the players will have to
maintain them. this will be expensive.

Active task forces should contain a few small warships as well as the
larger, more powerful varieties. This will limit the cost effectiveness of
enemy long range weapons since these weapons will select their targets at
random. On the other hand, if you make nothing but small warships, you will
soon bump against the 120 ship limit.

When you plan an assault on an enemy system, separate your forces into two
or more task forces with different missions. This will force any defending
forces to engage your attack task forces first, limiting the number of long
range weapons your transport task forces will have to dodge.

Pay attention to the order in which military units are loaded onto
transports. If you bring along a few extra units for occupation duty after
a space to ground assault (a good idea if the other player maintains a
reaction force), load them after any units you want involved in the
assault.

				25

If a naval battle is going poorly, don't be afraid to disengage your
forces. There is no penalty for a disengagement attempt and any forces
saved may live to fight another day.

Find out how good your younger commanders are. A 25 year old military
genius is a very valuable asset. Command has a significant effect on the
game. Remember that once you begin hostilities, they can't be stopped. The
League player should take advantage of his superior starting exploration
position. An aggressive League player should be able to explore much of the
cluster before the P.H.R. exploration program really gets rolling.

Both players would do well (in early games) to pay attention to the
suggestions offered by the program during economics reports. The initial
industrial growth potential of the P.H.R. should be exploited by the
Republican player.

ONE LAST NOTE: If you feel that you don't have enough resources to do a
proper job of everything that needs to be done, you're right! Just remember
that the other player is in no better shape.

9.0 APPENDICES

A. THE SYSTEM REPORT

Anytime you select "Examine System" from a menu, you'll be prompted to
select a system in the normal manner (read "The Quick System Display" in
section 2, if you aren't sure how selection works). The computer will then
provide you with a detailed display of all known information about that
system. Data on friendly systems is always up to date. Data on other
systems in updated only at the end of a turn in which you either have a
physical presence there, after all combat, or you successfully perform
covert reconnaissance. You can always tell how current your information is
by looking at the report date in the upper right portion of the display.

SYSTEM CHARACTERISTICS

(TOP SECTION):

Loyalty ranges from 1 (simmering rebellion) to 10 (utterly loyal) and will
affect your industrial output. Each point of loyalty translates to an
additional 10% output from the system's farms, refineries and mines. If a
system shows a loyalty of 9, it will produce 90% of its maximum output of
raw materials. Special characteristics of a system will generally have
either a positive or negative influence on the system's production. These
include Gasworlders, Oort People, Aborigines, Paleotechnology and Spiders
and are described in the Glossary.

Population is shown in thousands of people and will grow as the system is
colonized to a maximum of about 5.5 million in with a habitability of 100.
Habitability, Metals and Organics ratings are generated when the system is
first explored and range from 5 to 100. Habitability will increase with
time once a colony is established.

Deployment Sites ranges from 3 to 8 and indicates the maximum number of
military units that can be deployed in the system.

				26

Defensibility directly influences the outcome of any ground combat in the
system and ranges from 1 (poor) to 3 (good).

Movable Units (center section):

Colony, Protected Colony and Belt Colony all refer to units of 1000 people
ready and equipped for movement to new star systems.

Exploration is the number of Exploration Teams available in the system.
These teams are required to explore new star systems. Without them, your
ships are just passing through.

Ships gives the number of ships in active task forces in the system. This
doesn't include ships under construction.

Military will show a list of the military units deployed in the system.
Each unit has its own unique designation.

Farm Kits, Mine Kits, Refinery Kits and Factory Kits are prefabricated
industrial facilities awaiting transport. You'll need these to start an
industrial base in newly colonized systems.

PRODUCTION CENTERS

(BOTTOM SECTION):

Shipyards may accumulate up to Size build points per turn toward the
production of whatever Type Produced is currently being built by the
facility.

Training Centers work in exactly the same way as shipyards, but produce
military units.

Intelligence Centers may generate up to Size covert operations points per
turn. Covert operations points are used to perform Special Operations.
Farms, Mines, Refineries and Factories are basic industrial facilities.
This is where they system's production comes from.

Spares and Rations are used to maintain naval and military units
respectively. If the Maintenance and Training reality level is enabled,
these will become vital.

B-THE TASK FORCE DISPLAY

If you choose the Task Forces selection from the Move menu, you'll be
presented with a comprehensive report on all 36 of your task forces. Each
task force will be shown with the following information:

LOCATION

Name of the system where the task force is currently operating.

SIZE

The number of ships in the task force.

STATUS

This line is left blank for inactive task forces (those with no ships
currently assigned). Active task forces will have a status of "Ready" or
"Moved", and a mission suffix of "A" (Attack), "T" (Transport)or "R"
(Reserve).

One of the task force names will be shown in red. This is the selected task
force. You may select another one by clicking its number (ATARI ST) or
using the cursor keys (IBM PC XT/AT).

You can look at the selected task force by choosing "Examine or modify task
force". This will present you with a more detailed report and the
opportunity to change its mission, load/unload cargo and transfer or
reassign ships.

				27

You can exit the Task Force Display by choosing "Exit to Map/Menu".

C-History of the Kiffryn's Cats Star Cluster

By the beginning of the 24th century, humans had been a space faring race
for more than 200 years. Early colonization efforts, because of their
expense, were funded by governments in much the same way that the kings of
Europe financed the exploration of the New World in the 16th through 19th
centuries on Old Earth. Of course, private concerns became involved as soon
as it was economically feasible.

The majority of private colonies were established on government opened
worlds,  but many, for religious, political or other reasons, sought to
break away on their own. Any group that could raise the necessary funds
could perform its own utopian experiment on the frontier.

Interestingly, a sort of "fanaticism gradient" developed as the human race
spread outward from Terra. Because of the expense and danger involved in
independent opening of new worlds, only those with the greatest need tended
to move to the outermost fringe of human space. Of course, one could never
tell what one of these radical groups might stumble into.

The famous explorer Pyotr Kiffryn surveyed a remote, but potentially
valuable,  cluster of stars during his Second Grand Tour that, according to
his astrologer wife, looked just like two of the ship's cats at play. The
five stars of the primary cluster were named Alpha through Epsilon Felis in
honor of the feline genus and the cluster was logged as the "Kiffryn's
Cats" Cluster. By 2280, two groups were settled in the region.

The People's Holy Republic was founded by Neo-Christian Communists of
Northern and Central America in the latter part of the 23rd century after
the collapse of The People's Holy Marxist Union of Northwest American
States. With the Reformed Worker's Bible as their guide, the P.H.R. set out
to construct the ultimate worker's paradise. What they made was,
predictably, a rigidly bureaucratized oligarchy that used its state
mandated religion as a brutally effective form of mind control.

The League began as a private consortium of businessmen who sought to
escape the increasingly restrictive trade policies of Terra and her near
colonies (called the Central Systems). Originally called the Corporate
League, it quickly developed into a loose federation of trading communities
with virtually no political axes to grind. Within 15 years, the Corporate
League had become simply "the League".

Because they were well financed and cooperative, the P.H.R. originally
welcomed the founders of the League into the region. the honeymoon lasted a
little over 28 years. When the League began rapidly expanding, developing
newly explored systems as quickly as it surveyed them, a vocal
fundamentalist faction within the Holy Council of Elders began objecting to
the presence of "unrepentant capitalists" so close to their garden of eden.
The extremists succeeded in cutting all economic ties with the League and
obtained an old surplus Centaurian cruiser which they rearmed.

Because the League represented a significant quantity of capital and
because it

				28

was something of an embarrassment to Terra and the Central Systems,
clandestine aid began to flow into P.H.R. coffers. The struggle for control
of the Kiffryn's Cats cluster had begun.

Ironically, it was the same Terran government that was seeding money into
the P.H.R. that openly displayed its military strength to "maintain the
peace" when friction with the League threatened to turn into a shooting
war. During the early years of the 24th century, Terra maintained, at great
expense, a peacekeeping fleet in the region. It worked. Although
sabre-rattling became commonplace, no major armed confrontations occurred.

By the beginning of the 20's, however, pressure was growing in the Central
Systems to reduce military spending. Playing "big brother" to dozens of
fringe colonies was no longer a popular game and in 2320 Terra declared a
10 year countdown to the withdrawal of their military presence. Almost
instantly, a thriving black market in surplus military goods developed on
both sides of the cluster.

Then, in 2328, First Elder Gresham declared the League an "abomination in
the face of the Communing God". He called for a holy war, a crusade to
stamp the presence of capitalism from the region. Only the premature demise
of First Elder Gresham, and the subsequent struggle for control of the
Council, prevented an immediate outbreak, but the battle lines had been
drawn...

D GLOSSARY

ABORIGINES
While no technologically advance races (other than humanity) had been found
by the 24th century, several promising pre-technological species were
known. These beings were useful as workers and, sometimes, as trade
partners. A thorough search was always conducted for aborigines by
exploration teams.

BUILD UNIT
Also called Build Points. Build Units are the basic element of industrial
production. They are used to construct ships, military units, etc. Build
Units are produced from raw materials at factories.

COLONIES
Colonies are privately organized groups of self financed volunteers groups
of self financed volunteers ready to settle new systems as soon as the
local government provides transport. Protected and Belt colonies aren't
just better equipped, they're also generally organized by wealthier groups.
Even if they're going to a perfectly earthlike world, they still tend to
carry a great deal of baggage with them.

COMMANDERS
Individual military commanders and their staffs. Given the time scale of
the game, commanders will come and go. Both sides used code names for their
commanders for security purposes.

EFFECTIVENESS
The technological levels of the societies represented in Stellar Crusade
can change if the players invest in research. Anything left unspent
automatically goes into research. Any class of ship you design will be
given your current

				29

effectiveness has direct influence on combat and movement.

EXPLORATION
Initial exploration of an entire star system is a major endeavor. It's a
sobering thing to realize that, as of 1988, we still aren't sure we've
found all the planets in our own solar system. It seems reasonable to
assume that just about any system will have some economically useful
features. The game assumes that some personnel remain behind in each star
system and begin exploiting its resources. This is why a player gains some
benefit from an explored system,  regardless of whether it's ever
developed. It also explains why the exploring player has to send in a
massive team, while his opponent gets all that valuable information for
free. By the time he gets there, the system is crawling with prospectors,
salesmen, etc. who are happy to talk all about their new home.

GASWORLDERS
These are intelligent creatures who inhabit the upper layers of jobian
worlds. While none of the gasworlders in the game are technological, they
do trade exotic organics for certain manufactued goods.

I-SPACE
This is really a convenience of expression, since only a few physicist
really understand this "imaginary space" where massive objects travel
faster than light. Most ships are equipped with drives that "dip" into
i-Space, allowing them to move in short jumps. There are, however, more
specialized and vastly larger drive systems that allow ships to "stay
under" for protracted periods. While in i-Space, ships are extremely
difficult to detect.

OORT PEOPLE
Oort people are an intelligent (?) life form of vacuum dwelling migratory
organisms that feed on solar radiation. They've been known to exchange
exotic isotopes for original musical compositions broadcast in the 1 to 6
gigahertz band.

OPERATIONS OPTIONS
These are the basic resources that you can allocate to covert activities.
They're produced at intelligence centers and can be used to stir up trouble
in the opposition's systems or help maintain security in your own.

PALEOTECHNOLOGY
There were several star faring civilizations that preceded us into the
galaxy and their artifacts are a tantalizing source of discovery and
frustration. Sometimes, these forerunner artifacts can trigger a scientific
breakthrough.

SPIDERS
The debate concerning the origin of these vicious, arachnid predators still
rages, but the smart money seems to be in favor of an interstellar "hive"
race that collapsed for unknown reasons. Regardless of their origin, these
ubiquitous terrors are a real threat in systems where local conditions
favor them.

MILITARY UNITS
These are units of about battalion strength that operate in star systems
rather than deep space. There are four types of military unit: Security
Forces, Light Regulars, Heavy Regulars and Special Forces.

				30

			APPENDIX E: TABLES

THE WAR - ORDERS OF BATTLE

LEAGUE
TASK FORCE	LOCATION	SHIPS
01		Alger		Working Girl x 2
02		Alger		Explorer x 3
03		Alger		Mordecai Fae x 7
04		Alpha Felis	Working Girl x 1, Wasp x 1

COMMAND		SHIPS
Training	Explorer x 5, Lion x 5, Spiderbird x 6, Wolverine x 14
Escort		Wasp x 12, Firebat x 16, Wolverine x 2
Raiding		Snake x 8
Transport	Working Girl x 9, Explorer x 1
Transit		Wolverine x 4, Firebat x 1, Snake x 1

SYSTEM		MILITARY UNITS
Laird's Star	01Sy, 02Sy
Alger		07Hy, 11Hy, 13Lt, 16Hy, 17Hy, 19Lt, 21Lt, 22Hy
Bennett's Star	05Hy, 06Hy, 15Lt, 18Hy
Kiffryn's Star	08Hy, 09Hy, 10Hy, 12Lt, 14Hy, 20Hy
Epsilon Felis	03Sy, 04Sy

P.H.R.
TASK FORCE	LOCATION	SHIPS
01		Alpha Felis	John Calvin x 1, Goliath x 1
02		Progress	Martin Luther x 1, Goliath x 3
03		Brotherhood	John Calvin x 1
04		Progress	Martin Luther x 1
05		Progress	Martin Luther x 2
06		Progress	Martin Luther x 2

COMMAND		SHIPS
Training	Crossbow x 28, Chariot x 2
Escort		Charles Martel x 22
Raiding		Wrath of God x 2, Charles Martel x 1, Raider x 8
Transport	Martin Luther x 7, Goliath x 4, Trinity x 1, John Calvin x1
Transit		Crossbow x 3, Chariot x 12, Charles Martel x 3

SYSTEM		MILITARY UNITS
Progress	14Hy, 16Hy, 17Hy, 18Hy, 19Lt, 20Hy
Glance's Star	03Sy, 05Sy, 02Sy, 07Sy, 09Sy
Alpha Felis	06Hy, 10Hy, 11Hy, 13Hy
Brotherhood	08Lt, 12Hy, 15Lt
Unity		01Sy, 04Sy

				31

THE ALTERNATE WAR - ORDERS OF BATTLE

LEAGUE
TASK FORCE	LOCATION	SHIPS
02		Alger		Explorer x 4

COMMAND		SHIPS
Training	Mordecai Fae x 6, Explorer x 4, Lion x 5, Lion II x 5,
                Snake x 1
Escort		Wasp x 15, Lion x 3, Nimblebee x 1
Raiding		Snake x 3
Transport	Working Girl x 10
Transit		Nimblebee x 3, Lion II x 1

SYSTEM		MILITARY UNITS
Gamma Felis	01Sy, 02Sy
Kiffryn's Star	03Lt, 05Hy, 10Hy, 11Hy
Alger		04Hy, 09Hy, 12Hy, 14Hy, 15Hy, 16Hy
Bennett's Star	06Lt, 07Hy, 08Lt, 13Hy

P.H.R.
TASK FORCE	LOCATION	SHIPS
01		Progress	John Calvin x 1, Goliath x 1
02		Glance's Star	Martin Luther x 1, Goliath x 1
03		Brotherhood	John Calvin x 1
04		Progress	Martin Luther x 1
05		Glance's Star	Martin Luther x 2
06		Unity		Martin Luther x 2

COMMAND		SHIPS
Training	Crossbow x 18, Chariot x 1, Charles Martel x 1
Escort		Charles Martel x 5
Raiding		Wrath of God x 4, Charles Martel x 4, Raider x 6
Transport	Martin Luther x 7, Goliath x 4, Trinity x 1
Transit		Crossbow x 1, Raider x 1, Charles Martel x 1, 
		John Calvin x 1

SYSTEM		MILITARY UNITS
Unity		01Sy, 02Sy, 04Sy, 05Sy
Brotherhood	03Sy, 08Lt, 12Hy
Glance's Star	06Hy, 10Hy, 11Hy
Progress	07Sy, 09Sy, 13Hy

				32

GOLD RIVER - ORDERS OF BATTLE

LEAGUE
TASK FORCE	LOCATION	SHIPS
01		Alger		Working Girl x 1, Mordecai Fae x 6
03		Ramage C	Explorer x 3
10		Ramage C	Wolverine x 4, Tiger x 1, Hawk II x 2,
				Eagle x 4, Hornet x 2, Lion II x 3
11		Ramage C	Wolverine x 1, Hawk II x 3, Tiger x 4, 
				Lion II x 2, Hornet x 4, Eagle x 2
12		Ramage C	Wolverine x 2, Hawk II x 3, Tiger x 1, 
				Lion II x 3, Eagle x 4, Hornet x 3
20		Ramage C	Mordecai Fae x 2, Spiderbird x 4

COMMAND		SHIPS
Training	Spiderbird x 4, Mordecai Fae x 6, Hornet x 1, Eagle x 1,
		Lion II x1
Escort
Raiding
Transport
Transit		Lion II x 4, Hornet x 3, Eagle x 2, Working Girl x 1, 
		Snake x 3

SYSTEM		MILITARY UNITS
Laird's Star	01Sy, 02Sy
Epsilon Felis	03Sy, 04Sy
Bennett's Star	03Sy, 04Sy
Ramage C	07Lt, 13Lt, 16Lt, 17Lt, 19Lt, 21Lt, 23Hy
Alger		08Hy, 09Lt, 10Hy, 11Hy, 22Hy
Kiffryn's Star	12Lt, 20Hy
TF 20		24Lt

P.H.R.
TASK FORCE	LOCATION	SHIPS
01		Progress	John Calvin x 1, Goliath x 1
02		Alpha Felis	Martin Luther x 1, Goliath x 3
04		Progress	Martin Luther x 1
05		Glance's Star	Martin Luther x 2
06		Unity		Martin Luther x 2
07		Progress	John Calvin x 3
08		Brotherhood	John Calvin x 2
14		Progress	Crossbow x 1
15		Brotherhood	Crossbow x 2
17		Brotherhood	Crossbow x 5
22		Brotherhood	Crossbow x 16
23		Brotherhood	Crossbow x 11, Charles Martel x 1
31		Brotherhood	Chariot x 3
32		Progress	Chariot x 1
36		Progress	Wrath of God x 1, Raider x 1

SYSTEM		MILITARY UNITS
Unity		01Sy, 04Sy
Glance's Star	02Sy, 03Sy, 05Sy, 07Sy, 09Sy
Alpha Felis	06Hy, 10Hy, 11Hy, 13Hy
Brotherhood	08Hy, 15Hy, 16Hy
Progress	19Hy, 20Hy, 21Hy, 22Hy, 23Hy
TF 31		14Hy, 17Hy, 18Hy
TF 32		12Hy

				33

JERICHO - ORDERS OF BATTLE

LEAGUE
TASK FORCE	LOCATION	SHIPS
02		Kiffryn's Star	Explorer x 2
03		Bennett's Star	Mordecai Fae x 5
04		Gamma Felis	Wasp x 1
10		Delta Felis	Lion x 1, Wolverine x 6, Hawk II x 1, 
				Bear x 3, Hornet x 1
11		Delta Felis	Lion x 2, Wolverine x 5, Bear x 2, 
				Hornett x 1
12		Kiffryn's Star	Wolverine x 7, Firebat x 1, Hawk II x 1,
				Bear x 3, Hornett x 1
20		Bennett's Star	Spiderbird x 4, Hornet x 1, 
				Mordecai Fae x 1
33		Laird's Star	Explorer x 1
35		Laird's Star	Firebat x 1
36		Laird's Star	Snake x 1

COMMAND		SHIPS
Training	Explorer x 3, Spiderbird x 3, Wolverine x 2, Hornet x 3,
		Hawk II x 1, Bear x 4
Escort
Raiding
Transport
Transit		Bear x 1, Explorer x 1, Snake x 1

SYSTEM		MILITARY UNITS
Laird's Star	01Sy, 02Sy, 18Sy
Epsilon Felis	03Sy, 04Sy
Bennett's Star	05Hy, 06Hy, 15Lt
Delta Felis	07Hy, 11Hy, 13Lt, 16Hy
Kiffryn's Star	08Hy, 09Hy, 12Lt, 14Hy, 20Hy
Alger		17Lt, 19Lt, 21Lt, 23Lt, 24Lt

P.H.R.
TASK FORCE	LOCATION	SHIPS
01		Alpha Felis	John Calvin x 1, Goliath x 1
02		Progress	Martin Luther x 1, Goliath x 3
03		Brotherhood	John Calvin x 1
04		Progress	Martin Luther x 1
05		Progress	Martin Luther x 2
06		Progress	Martin Luther x 2
07		Progress	John Calvin x 1
08		Glance's Star	John Calvin x 3
18		Brotherhood	Charles Martel x 1
19		Brotherhood	Crossbow x 1
20		Baker's Star	Crossbow x 1
22		Glance's Star	Crossbow x 14
23		Glance's Star	Crossbow x 9, Charles Martel x 2
30		Brotherhood	Chariot x 1, Charles Martel x 3, 
				Crossbow x 3
31		Glance's Star	Chariot x 3
32		Progress	Chariot x 1

COMMAND		SHIPS
Training
Escort
Raiding
Transport
Transit		Goliath x 1, Wrath of God x 2, Charles Martel x 4, 
		Crossbow x 5, John Calvin x 5, Raider x 1, Chariot x 1

							Jericho continues...

				34

SYSTEM		MILITARY UNITS
Unity		01Sy, 04Sy
Glance's Star	02Sy, 03Sy, 05Sy, 07Sy, 09Sy
Alpha Felis	06Hy, 10Hy, 11Hy, 13Hy
Brotherhood	08Hy, 12Hy, 15Lt
Progress	19Lt, 20Hy, 21Hy, 22Hy, 23Hy, 24Hy, 25Hy, 26Hy
TF 30		17Hy
TF 31		14Hy, 16Hy, 18Hy


MILITARY UNIT TABLE

TYPE		STRENGTH	CAPABILITY	TRANSPORT SIZE	COST
Security Forces	2		1-4		3		4
Light Regulars	2-4		1-8		6		10
Heavy Regulars	3-5		1-8		8		12
Special Forces	1		1-10		2		10

				35



		KIFFRYN'S CATS STAR CLUSTER-ROUTE MAP
	   Routes shown are available at Effectiveness 4

				36

                      Stellar Conflict Codes

1 2 3 has
1 3 11 your
1 9 3  honor
1 10 7 stellar
2 3 1  use
2 8 2 new
2 18 1 be
2 29 12 mail
3 2 3 free
3 5 1 all
3 18 4 par
3 22 2 billion
4 7 1 basic
4 12 4 just
4 19 3 blank
4 32 1
6 2 6 millions
6 11 1 boot
6 13 13 mouse
6 14 14 icon
7 1 2 ok
7 11 6 title
7 21 8 quit
7 29 5 generate
8 2 4 up
8 4 11 screen
8 9 7 class
8 12 3 option
9 1 4 zero
9 9 6 limit
9 18 2 can
9 25 2 skill
10 2 8 this
10 3 11 so
10 18 6 two
10 27 2 next
11 4 9 white
11 15 2 blue
11 21 2 green
11 27 2 brown
12 2 2 grey
12 13 9 ships
12 22 3 hyperspace
12 27 7 superspace
13 4 3 prompt
13 7 7 rocket
13 27 12 planet
13 35 10 extend
14 12 7 five
14 16 10 view
14 22 8 level
14 26 12 ok
15 4 13 message
15 10 1 secret
15 21 8 battle
15 32 2 colors
16 2 7 mouse
16 12 2 access
16 19 6 computer
16 25 11 amiga
17 3 10 require
17 9 9 cancel
17 19 2 option
17 22 8 help
18 3 5 key
18 14 2 the
18 19 5 closest
18 25 2 rebellion
19 2 5 ships
19 6 5 traps
19 14 7 send
19 21 8 base
20 2 8 natives
20 7 10 eight
20 16 4 end
20 20 5 regain
21 1 6 access
21 3 1 what
21 5 4 i
21 9 9 star

============================================================================
     DOCS PROVIDED BY RAP AND -+*+-THE SOUTHERN STAR-+*+- for M.A.A.D.                                                               
============================================================================
