
DOUBLE DRAGON II - THE REVENGE

DOCS TYPED IN BY ZARCH - 9th DECEMBER 1989


LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

AMIGA

Insert disk in df0: - Double Dragon 2 will load and run


WEAPONS - HANDY OPPORTUNITIES TO FIGHT HARDER

Fighting through the hostile terrain, Billy and Jimmy will encounter thugs
and villains. Some of them will be armed, and it may be possible to force them
to drop their weapons to the floor. Every no and again you'll find a careless
hoodlum has left a useful weapon lying on the ground. Whenever you get the
chance, pick up a weaopn and put it to use.

Spades, daggers, powerballs, boxes, grenades, logs and whips can be wielded to
good effect against the marauding hordes. Be sure to take advantage of every
opportunity to even the odds. As skilled fighters, Billy and Jimmy Lee 
immediatley become masters of any weaponry you can their hands on.


THE STORY CONTINUES...

Things didnt go too well after all. When the Black Warriors gang kidnapped
Marian and sparked off the previous expedition onto the city streets, her
sweetheart Billy Lee saved the day. With the help of his brothher, Jimmy,
Billy managed to rescue Marian and dispose of the evil leader of the Black
Warriors - a gun toting villian by the name of Willy.

At the end of Double Dragon I, the city streets had been rendered a much 
safer place with the Black Warriors put permenantly out of action. Or so
everyone thought.

Billy and Jimmy didnt kill ALL the warriors. The solitary survuving member
of the gang nursed herself back to health, and spent several years studying
acient martial atrs of healing. At the far fringes of the ancient medical
science she studied, there is an area of what can only be called magic -
magic powerful enough to reincarnate the dead. Linda, for it was she,
perfected her powers of Undhai, or magic medicene, to the point where she had
the ability to raise the mortal remains of the dead. She learnt how to breathe
life back into the human remains left behind by the souls long departed from
this planet.

No prizes for guessing what Linda's main aim was. But first, she practised her
powers on the remains of a few dead yobboes, lowly members of the Black
Warriors gang, to make sure she had full mastery of the magic before 
concentrating on raising Willy himself. Before the brothers Lee realised
what was happening, the Black Warriors were up to full strength once more
and back in action. And it seems lindas early experiments produced one or two
mutated gamg members...

Driven by a powerful urge for revenge, Willy ordered his minions to kidnap
Marion once more. Within days of his command being issued, the hapless girl
found herself transported to willys secret base. Never a thug to make the
same mistake twice, willy immediately murdered Marian and locked her remains in
a magic field conjured up by Linda. (who achieved remarkably rapid promotion
within the hierarchy of the Black Warriors as a result of her success in
getting willy up and about.)

Once again, the twins set out on a quest to rescue marian - but this time their
mission is likely to be even more comlicated. Starting out in the city's
heliport, Billy and Jimmy have to battle their way down a lift shaft, into
and through a warehouse and out into the open countryside. Fighting their way
up a cliff, they reach a hilltop where a door to willy's secret base is hidden.
Marians body lies entombed in the centre of this hideout, and to stand any
chance of rescuing her and returning her soul to this world, the heroes have
to kill willy and then do battle with their own tortured souls...

Only when the Warriors and willy have been defeated can the magic field that
shields marian's remains be penetrated. The Lees are twins, but they are
also the seventh sons of a seventh son, so have magical powers bestowed
on them as their Shinto birthright. When they have defeated their own souls
in combat, they will draw suffcient power from the ether to enact a Shinto
resurrection ceremony and restore Marian to life.

With the warriors finally eradicated and Marian restored to the peak of health,
Billy, Jimmy and Marian will pass through a portal into another space-time
continium and hopefully live a long and peaceful life together.


PLAYING THE GAME

Fight, fight and fight some more is the only to rescue Marian. Billy can stage
a one-brother rescue mission, but the chances are much higher if he can enter
the fray with Jimmy by his side/(if two players embark on the quest to raise
Marian, then they should work as a team and keep an eye on their respective
partners.)

Each of the five game sections has to be completed before the timer above
the main screen reaches zero - or the heroes loses one of their precious 
Shinto lives. Hits from members of the black warriors wreckin crew also 
reduces the Lees' lifeforce, taking power form the brothers' two lifestatus
displays shown below the screen. The total number of lives Billy and Jimmy
have at their disposal is ahown by a digital redout immediayely above
their lifeforce meters.

The route to Marians location takes the battling boys relentlessly to the
right of the screen. The only way to move from one section of the play area
to the next is to kill off all the warriors lurking there - once the zone is
empty the guiding hand will appear in the skies, urging Billy and Jimmy
to move to the next point.

As Jimmy and Billy have led such clean and honest lives, the shinto powers
that rule the universe have granted them a limited level of immortality to
be going on with. (should they succeed in the mission, full shinto deity
status is accorded to them before they move onto another space-time continuum)
If one of the brothers Lee should meet and untimely end, it is possible to
activate one of the five immortality credits the shinto powers have granted -
the quest can continue with a freshly rejuvenated hero.


CONTROLS

WITHOUT FIRE PRESSED

The 8 directions on the joystick controls the movement of your LEE brother


WITH FIRE PRESSED
                            7   8   1
                             \  |  /  
                              \ | /
                               \|/
                       6 -------+------- 2
                               /|\
                              / | \
                             /  |  \ 
                            5   4   3


1. If facing left, flying spin kick to left
   If facing right, jump right

2. If facing left, back kick to right
   If facing right, flying kick right

3. If facing left, elbow right
   If facing right, flying back spin kick right

4. Walk Down


5. If facing right, elbow left
   If facing left, spin kick left

6. If facing right, back kick to left
   If facing left, flying kick left

7. If facing right, flying spin kick right
   If facing left, jump left

8. Jump up

Fire = Punch, Pick up, Throw Etc





DOCS TYPED IN BY ZARCH - 9th DECEMBER 1989 





