ROBIN HOOD DEMO

Robin Hood: The Legend of Sherwood

Playable Demo version


STORY

Do not only take on the role of the hero Robin Hood, but also the roles of his
faithful vassals and take them to the battle field against the nasty Prince
John Lackland. In doing so you are able to enjoy the fabulous English
landscape of 1190 as well as the giant castles and funny characters.

The thrilling story is introduced by an award-winning introduction and
transfers you directly into the hero's body with the first mission, in which
you have to set the captive comrades free. Take up the battle against the
oppressors and free the farmers from the Prince's reign! Be smart, be fast!
Be Robin Hood!

 

FEATURES

- More than 30 non-linear missions with very different plots. For instance
you have to save Little John and Brother Tuck, to prevent a wedding between
Marianne and the revolting Guy of Gisbourne or to attack the tax collectors
of the Sheriff of Nottingham.

- Visit five giant castles on different ways, at day and night times, and 
at different weather conditions.

- Play with up to nine integrated characters being outstanding due to their
specific abilities and qualities.

- Due to an innovative fighting system you are able to control the heros
sword in battles by mouse.

- Decide yourself which tactic appears to be the right one for you: reach the
goal by creeping around the guards or fight bravely using sword and bow.

- The game will be available with english, german and french localizations.
Both texts and dialogues are translated.



DEMO VERSION

Robin learns, that the Sheriff of Nottingham has caught his nephew Will
Scarlet and with the help of a few of his men will have to try to set him free.

You can control Robin or any of his merry men by clicking on their images at
the bottom of the screen. Each character has special abilities. To learn more
about their abilities or to get hints and tips, pick up the scrolls that are
lying on the ground. They contain valuable information.
 
Remember: it is always better to think if you can avoid it before starting
a fight, the game gives you a lot of alternatives to fighting if you want
to skip guards!
 

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

- Pegasos G3/G4
- 128 MB RAM
- Radeon, Voodoo, Permedia or compatible MorphOS supported GFX Card
- 128 MB of hard disk space (1 GB for full version)
- CD ROM drive (full version only)
    


"Robin Hood: The Legend of Sherwood" on the net

For information, hints and tips and the latest news about Robin Hood,
please visit the following website:
Rune Soft: http://www.rune-soft.com

 

Have fun!
Your Spellbound Studios and Runesoft teams!


(c) 2002-2006 Spellbound Studios
(c) 2004-2006 Mac/Linux/Zeta/MorphOS version by Runesoft GmbH.
All rights reserved. 
Published by Runesoft for the Mac, MorphOS and Linux
