            This program is freely distributable AMIGA software. 
               Any form of SELLING formally FORBIDDEN !!!!!
                 The author declines all responsability!!
                         (c) Joachim Tuckmantel


4'n Row 3D :                                    Version 1.2.1  21/12/91
============   


The Game:
---------
This game is a three dimensional version of 'Zeros and Crosses' using
coloured cubes instead of paper and pencil.


Course of the Game:
-------------------
Alternatively cubes are put on the 4x4 board or on top of any already 
present cube. The position of cubes cannot be changed any more.
Each pile may be up to 4 cubes high, i.e. the '3D board' is 4x4x4 large. 
There are no 'suspended cubes'.
(Illegal moves are refused and indicated by a display flash) 
The COMPUTER plays with RED cubes, YOU with WHITE ones.

Aim of the Game:
----------------
Get 4 cubes of one player in line, either left to right, front to back,
bottom to top or any diagonal in any plane or in space. Winner is, who
succeeds first. Draw is possible (64 cubes set but no "4'n row").

Practical Hints:
----------------
Start the game in clicking the games's icon. A requester appears with
3 options : 
    - You have the first move for the next game (brain)
    - The computer has the first move for the next game (chip)
    - Stop playing "4'n Row 3D" (STOP).

The actual position is indicated as well by a '3D' image (centre) as by 
a 2D representation of the 4 horizontal planes (right). 
For better visibility, the whole setup can be turned using the switches 
left and right below the 3D representation.
 
To avoid ambiguities, your move has to be clicked with the magnifying
glass (mouse curser) on the corresponding 2D field. 
The computer indicates its move with a cube marked yellow for two seconds 
(to 'flash' the actual move), after which the colour turns to the usual red.
During this time and while the computer is thinking, no clicking is accepted
and the mouse curser transforms into an hourglass.

Once one player has obtained "4'n row", these 4 cubes are marked
yellow (regardless of the color of the winner) and the corresponding
icon of the winner (brain or chip) appears. 
The player can examine this position (and get angry about his errors) 
as long as he/she wants. To terminate the actual game, use the 
'End of Game Gadget' (left bottom), the initial requester will reappear.
This gadget can also be used to cancel the game whenever desired.
 
At any stage of the game, you can take back a double move (one of the 
computer, one of you) in clicking the remove gadget under the 2D field.
(This is even possible after win or loss of a game ! If the player
was the winner, only his cube is removed)
You can repeat this removal till the board is empty resp. contains only 
the first cube of the computer.  If you continue further, the display 
will flash (illegal 'move').

Using the menu, you can change the depth of the computer analysis
(strength of game) at any stage of the game (except when the 
requester is on). Actually foreseen levels are 
     'Beginner'    'Advanced'     'Master'

Finally, if you have messed up your game, you can change sides in using the 
corresponding gadget above the 2D field. The system will remove the last 
computer move (the following move will be yours), exchange colors of the 
cubes (you still play with white, the computer with red) and let the 
computer find its way through your mess.

            Good luck   

                                                Joachim Tuckmantel
                                                (Member CERN Micro Club) 
                                                38, Av. de Vaudagne
                                                CH-1217 Meyrin/Geneva   
                                                Switzerland
                                                "MultiBug SoftWare"
 
The author likes to acknowledge Anders Bjerin and his Amiga-C-Club,
Tulevagen 22, 18141 LIDINGO, SWEDEN, giving a good start through 
windows, screen, gadges, requesters and what else there is .....
