That fix applies to Dragon Wars (c) 1990 Interplay, english version 1.2
and german version 1.2-G.

You have 3 choices: Install to hd, patch a backup-floppy and (later)
install an already with this script patched floppy to hd.
The Patcher can be obtained from Jeffs Patch&HD-Installers page or 
the WHDLoad-package.

Fixed:  Game relied that some unused bits in Kick1.3 would be zero.
        Additional fixes for the german version:
        -Man fand Steinwaffen, abliefern mußte man aber Steinarme
          (da konnte sich ein Übersetzer wohl nicht entscheiden).
        -Problem der Stringüberlaenge von 'Robas Schädel'. Er wurde
          am Zielort nicht erkannt.
        -Absturz in der Unterwelt von Phoebus.
        -Absturz bei Verwendung der Goldstiefel.
        -Absturz an der Statue des Gottes der Heimcomputer.
        -Absturz nach Kampf mit Namtar. Wenn man diesen bestanden hat
          wird man wieder in die Apsu Water teleportiert (ich habe den
          Eindruck, daß man normalerweise die 5 Schritte laufen müßte).
        -Manche Tastaturkürzel sind allerdings noch englisch: (a)dvance,
          (b)ack (Stellung wechseln), (s)ingle, (b)??? (Armbrust).
        -Ein weiteres Problem der deutschen Version: Nie einen Charakter
          Spells aus Druiden- und Diverser Magie gleichzeitig lernen 
          lassen, die Diverse Magie ist aufgrund der identischen
          Tastaturabfrage nicht mehr anwählbar.
        Trotzdem denke ich, dass das Spiel den Aufwand wert ist, viel 
          Spaß mit der endlich lösbaren Version!

Notes:  I included a solution in german. If someone wants to translate 
          it to english, just do.
        Also remember that the game has a macrorecorder with alt-f1...f10,
          this is nowhere mentioned in the game manual, but allows fast
          combat rounds and bandaging.

Comment: Although it has its disadvantages with its hard puzzles and
          battles i think that its one of the best RPGs ever with the
          flair of its own world and its consistent story.

This fix was successfully tested under Kick1.3, Kick 2.0 and Kick 3.0.

Jeffs Patch&HD-Installers page: http://www.ensica.fr/~jffabre/patches.html
  (Sometimes temporarily down)
Berts WHDLoad-page: http://www.fh-zwickau.de/~jah/whdload/
Report bugs with a bug report form to Harry on that page (click on my
  name in the game section and change the name of the game to Dragon Wars).
