                        BLOODWYCH CHARACTER EDITOR

Typed by ???  Edited by PARASITE.


 Using the Bloodwych Character Editor couldn't be simpler. Control is by
using mainly the * , - , + and Enter keys on the numeric pad.

 For example :

 1 Load bloodwych editor.
 2 Choose to edit a 1 or 2 player game save.
 3 Insert game save disk when prompted.
 4 Cycle through characters using the - and + keys until you find one
   you wish to edit, then press * key to select it.
 5 Use the same procedure to choose which items you wish to have the
   character start the game with, then set the attribute levels to your
   liking - level, intelligence, charisma etc,. After you are satisfied
   with the new levels, you will be asked if you wish the character to
   start with all the game spells.Now do the same with the other members
   of your team - although you will probably find in practise that one
   "Superman" is enough.
 6 Finally, save out your redesigned team to a fresh disk, load it into
   Bloodwych like any normal saved game and be amazed!

   There are lots of possibilities: you can start the game with as many
different keys as you want, thus enabling you to take shortcuts ( you
could, for instance, tackle the final tower without completing the rest
just by editing the key and the four crystals into your inventory. )
   You can of course re-edit your team again at any time you wish. Most
combinations will work, the best results being achieved by experiment,
but a few cautionary words are in order:

   When editing the inventory, care should be taken when inserting items
into 'dedicated' pockets or slots; for instance, putting a sword into
the armour slot may produce some funny results! Similarly coinage and
keys; The maximum of each allowed a character is 99. You can start out
with more but when you manipulate the inventory the program steals them
back!
   Please note that the maximum level for each attribute is 99, with the
exception of Hit Points which is 255.

End.
