                                BREACH 2

Typed in by ???.  Edited by PARASITE.


SCENARIO BUILDER:

KEYS:

        R - New Marine
        F - Modify/Examine/Outfit Marines
SHIFT + MOUSE BUTTON - (Over Object):     Edit Object Text
                       (Over Opponent):   Edit Opponent Attributes
                       (Over Teleporter): Edit Destination
        SPACEBAR - Terrain Text over Cursor Location
        [, ] - Change "parts" palette (5 palettes)
        C - Chain Scenarios (for Campaign style games)
        W - Whole Level View (and move)
        HOME - Scroll Left
        END - Scroll Right
        PGUP - Scroll Up
        PGDN - Scroll Down
        U - Undo
        +, - - Change Level (out of 5)
        O - Copy Level
        L - Fill Level
        SHIFT keypad arrow keys - move 1 square Up, Down, Left, Right
        Arrow keys - move cursor

        F5 - Save/Quit [CANCEL to return to EDITOR]
        F6 - Cursor Toggle
        F7 - Grid Toggle

GAME:

        SHIFT + CLICK MOUSE BUTTON
                Change marine facing direction

                              *  Turn North

                                     *  Turn North East
                              *
                            --+-- *  Turn East
                              |
                             / \            *  Turn South East

                              *  Turn South

WEST, NORTHWEST AND SOUTHWEST Are Obvious!

        ALT + CLICK MOUSE BUTTON over marine, that is now the select marine.

        All other functions are handled by mouse, if you don't have a
        mouse or a joystick emulating one, forget it.

PLAYING BREACH
To start a new game, you must run BREACH2 and select the appropriate
hardware.   You will then see the title screen followed by the
"selection" screen.

This screen is divided in three parts.   On the left are the SCENARIO
names and 'ratings'.   A scenario is rated by the author so easy for one
may  not be as easy as another.     On the upper right are up to four
squad leaders.  These are 'your' characters.  You may examine, create or
delete them from here.   On the bottom right are scenario games in
progress.

To continue a scenario in progress simply click the game name that you are
playing and then select "PLAY".

To stop a scenario [deleting your game] select it [in the lower right
window] and click STOP.

To play a new game select [by clicking the name] the scenario in the window
on the left, then select the squad leader in the upper left window.   Now
click 'make' in the bottom right window and type a game name, it can be
the same as the scenario title.    Now you will be able to select BEGINNER
or EXPERIENCED.

After this, the game will load and you'll find yourself playing Breach!

ORDER OF PLAY
Player Phase - Each round begins with the player having the option to
move all, some, or none of his marines.  You can move a marine until he
runs out of movement points for the round, the computer will
automatically enter the Enemy Phase.

Each Play Phase takes 30 seconds of game time.

Enemy Phase - When the enemy attack phase beings, the marine statistics
window will change its title to "Enemy Attacks" and the opponent round will
begin.

Enemy troops appear in the combat window only when they are attacking
your men.

At the end of the enemy phase, the player phase begins again.

MOVEMENT POINTS
Each marine is given a certain quantity of movement points (mp).  All of
the marine activities except for changing the view scale (more on that
later) take up a certain number of points.  For example, moving onto a
clear terrain square costs 2 mp, while firing a gun takes 5 mp.  The
combat activities such as taking an object, firing the gun, moving,, and
using an object can all be mixed at your discretion during the same turn.

If you do not have sufficient mp for the activity you want to perform, the
computer will inform you with an alert box.

If all of the movement points for the current marine have been exhausted, the
program will automatically advance to the next marine in the squad.

Movement points for each marine are based on:  the marine's suit type, the
vitality of the marine, and the marine's current encumbrance.

DEPLOYING YOUR SQUAD
The marines in your squad always enter the scenario through the entry
square.  The entry square must be clear in order for your marines to
enter.  If a marine is unable to enter, the program will jump to the
enemy combat phase.

You can continue moving a marine until he runs out of movement points, gets
stunned or you click the Next Marine icon.  (The second from the left on
the bottom, a green figure and a red figure).   Each time you click this
icon, the program will advance to the next marine in the squad who is in the
combat zone, is not stunned, and has at least one movement point.

To end your turn, select the "NEXT" icon [3rd from left on bottom] and you
will be asked if you are sure.

NOTE: There is a 'program bug' -- if a marine has 1 movement point left and
you use the SHIFT n' CLICK to turn your marine, the next phase will begin
immediately!

In addition, you can make any marine who is visible in the combat window the
current marine by holding down the Alternate key and clicking the desired
marine.

If detectors and crack units are available, use them whenever possible.
By saving time searching for your objects, you raise the odds of
successfully completing your mission.

ENCUMBERANCE
There are fifteen different types of objects which may be found in a
scenario.  Each of those objects has an encumbrance value.  Encumbrance
is a measure of the object's bulk.  Obviously, the bulkier the type of
object, the fewer of them the marine may carry.

Carrying a large number of encumbrance points has two disadvantages.  One,
the weight reduces the number of available mp's per turn.  Two, marines
carrying a large quantity of encumbrance points are more likely to be
selected as a target by enemy forces.

MISSION BRIEFING
The mission briefing is a short description of your combat mission.

Briefings usually include information as to the type and strength of
enemy you will be fighting and hints as to the location of any mission
objectives.

To see them at any time simply click the 'folder' icon.

MISSION ORDERS (VICTORY CONDITONS)
The victory conditions are:

Rescue prisoners - You must resure all of the prisoners in the scenario if
this is one of the victory conditions.

Capture data packs - This works the same way as rescue prisoners.

Exit combat zone - All of the marines in your squad must find and use the exit
square if this is one of the victory conditions.

Kill n% opponents - At least n% of the opponents in the senario must be killed
if this is one of the vitory conditions.

Scenario time limit-  All of the other victory conditons in the game must be
statisfied before the time limit expires.  All scenarios have a time limit.
All of the victory conditons are non-exclusive, that is, more than one
may be in effect for a given scenario.  Thus in order to complete a
scenario you may have to rescue prisoners and move all of the squad's
marines through the exit square before the time limit expires.

To see the Mission Orders (Victory Conditions) at any time, simply click
the "printout" icon.

In addition to displaying what you need to do to successfully complete
your mission, the Mission Orders screen will also serve as a "checklist".

FIGHTING THE ENEMY
If the enemy is using grenades and rockets, avoid clustering your
marines.   Try to keep at least one square between each one.  This way,
you avoid having three or four casualties from a single grenade blast.

Conversely, grenades and rockets are most effective against clusters of the
enemy.  Unless you have a large quantity of grenades or rockets, it is wisest
not to "waste" these weapons against single targets.

Battle robots are very dangerous opponents.  Two hits from their cannon are
enough to destroy virtually any marine.  In additon, they move quickly and
their and their armor is quite tough.  It is a good idea to use grenades
against battle tanks before trying to destroy them with your marine's guns.

IMPROVING YOUR SQUAD LEADER
Your overall objective is to imporve your squad leader.  You do this by
successfully completing scenarios.

The more active a squad leader is, the more likely he will see some kind of
improvement at the end of a successful scenario.  Shooting accuracy is very
important but cracking and detecting skills should be honed as well.

It is rumored that squad leaders who are excellent shots and have a passing
knowledge of detecting and cracking are sent to a special advanced training
school (STAR) which gives them the skills necessary to complete a STAR level
scenario.

SAVING A GAME IN PROGRESS
In order to save a game in progress, you must be at the beginning of the
Player Movement phase.  You may select menu entires, but clicking any of the
icons or the combat window will prevent you from saving your game.  This is
the only point at which you can save the game before quitting.

QUITTING BREACH
Select the "save" icon [the disk] and select NO and you will be returned
to the "selection" screen.

THE COMBAT WINDOW
The combat window is the largest window on the screen.  During the player
combat phase, the current player marine will always appear in the center
of the combat window.  During the enemy phase, the current enemy marine
will appear in the center of the combat window.

THE MARINE STATISTICS WINDOW
The marine statistics window has several functions.  During the Enemy
Combat phase, information on enemy attacks are shown in the marine
statistics window.  During the Player Combat phase, this window displays
the battle statistics for the current player marine.  These statistics
are:

Moves - the number of moves left in the current marine's turn

Vital - the vitality of the current marine.  If the vitality drops below 30%,
it will be displayed in red as a warning.

Health - the health of the current marine.  If this goes to 0% the marine is
dead.  When the current marine's health falls below 50% it will be displayed
in red as a warning.

Encumb - the current encumbrance of the marine (not the maximum encumbrance).

Accur - the accuracy of the current marine's shooting.  If the marine is also
a psionic talent, this is a measure of stun accuracy as well.

Detect - the percentage chance the current marine has of successfully
operating a detector unit.

Crack - the percentage chance the current marine has of successfully operating
a crack unit.

Ammo - the current marine's ammunition supply in his gun.  This figure does
not include ammunition in ammo clips he may be carrying.  Ammo clips must be
used in order for their ammo to be added into this figure.

COUNTDOWN TIMER
The countdown timer displays the amount of time remaining in the
scenario.

WIDEVIEW DISPLAY
The wideview display is a 21 by 21 composite map of the terrain
surrounding the current marine.  It can be displayed by clicking on the
Change Scale icon. (The first icon from the left on the bottom).
Information for this wideview is provided by other marines moving through
the area, scouts using detectors, and infiltrators using crack units.
When scouts use wideview, opponents appear as flashing squares.

DROP OBJECT
Click this icon to drop an object.

A dialog will appear with a list of all the objects the current marine is
carrying.  Click on the name of the object you want to drop and then
click "Ok".

There are several reasons you might want to drop something.  A very good
reason is that you no longer want to carry something because of its
encumbrance penalty.  You might want to transfer an object from one
marine to another.

A dropped object always lands directly underneath the current marine.
Only one object may be in a square at a time.

It takes 1 movement point to drop an object.

USE SHAFT
Click on this icon whenever you are on a liftshaft/dropshaft that you
want to use.

If the corresponding square above the liftshaft (or below the dropshaft) is
blocked by another marine, the mouse pointer will change into a stop sign.
If the corresponding square is blocked by an opponent, the opponent will be
killed and your level will be changed.  (This works both ways.)

It takes 5 movement points to use a shaft.

TAKE OBJECT
Click this icon to take an object.

You can take any object directly adjacent to or in the same square as the
current marine.  The object must be visible; you cannot take an object
directly from another marine.

The mouse pointer will turn into a pointing hand.  Click this on the object
you wish to take.

Some objects have special messages written on them.  These messages appear
whenever the object is taken.

Whenever an object is taken, it increased the marine's total encumbrance.
Encumbrance affacts the number of movement points your marine will receive at
the beginning of a turn.  Therefore, heavily laden marines will not more at
their highest speed.

It takes 1 movement point to take an object

USE OBJECT
Click this icon to use an object.

A dialog box will appear with at list of all the objects the current marine is
carrying.  Click on the name of the object you want to use and then click
"Ok".

All of the objects and their uses are detailed in the section "Objects and
Their Uses."

The objects require varying amounts of movement points to use.  They are:

OBJECT               MOVEMENT POINTS
Grenade                     5
Neutron Bomb                6
Stimulant (Tablet)          3
Remote Charge               8
Ammo                        8
MediKit                     7
Rocket                      5
Launcher                    5
Crack Unit                  9
Detector                    15
Shield                      Automatic
Grav Belt                   10
Prisoner                    N/A
Datapack                    N/A

OPEN DOOR
Click this icon to open a door adjacent to the current marine.

The mouse point will turn into a small key.  Place this key over the door you
want to open and click the mouse.  If you have enough movement points,
the door will open.

The doors require varying amounts of movement points to open.  Glass doors
require 3, Steel doors require 5, and Power doors require 10.

FIRE GUN/PSIONIC STUN
Click over the object you want to fire at from the current marine.  Be
careful, you may kill your own men!

The gun will fire in the direction that the marine faces.  Each firing
consumes one round of ammo.

Whenever this icon is clicked and there is at least one round of ammo in the
current marine's gun, a beam of energy will be emitted.  This beam will travel
in a straight line away from the marine until it strikes: a wall, solid rock,
a shaft, a closed door, a fuel tank, and opponent, or one of your own men.

When a beam stops in a particular square, the computer determins wheater
or not the beam hit the target.  This is based on the current marine's
accuracy percentage.  If the beam does hit the target, a "splash" of
energy will appear on the target.  This holds true for the opponents as
well.  If the beam hits an opponent, the amount of health damage that the
gun generates is subtracted from the opponent's health, minus the amount
of protection his armor provides.

Note:   Since Breach 2 allows different guns, it could be said that
Laser Rifles are 40%, Pistols 30% and Stun Guns 15%.

                                Suit                 Gun
                             Protection            Damage

Squad Leader                    75%                 40%
Marauder                        55%                 30%
Scout                           55%                 15%
Infiltrator                     45%                 15%
Psionic Talent                  0%                  15%
Enemy Marine                    55%                 30%
Alien                           45%                 15%
Beast                           0%(1)               15%
Biped                           55%                 40%
Battle Robot                    75%                 40%
Gun Emplacement                 75%                 40%
Tank                            ??%                 ??%

Stun Guns can kill if the victim is HURT.

(1) Beasts' biting gereates 45% damage.

For example, an enemy marine (suit protection = 30%) is hit by a shot from
your squad leader (gun damage = 75%).  The result is that the enemy marine
would lose 45% health (75% - 30% = 45% loss).

The same holds true for your own marines.  Note that it is possible to shoot
your own troops by mistake, so look before you fire.

Fuel tanks are useful to hit, as long as you aren't too close to them
when they explode.  Being in the midsts of a fuel tank explosion is the
equivalent of standing on a demo charge when it goes off.  However if you
can positon your marines correctly, this effect can be explited with
impressive results.  A word of warning: fuel tanks will chain-react.

Enemies successfully stunned by a psionic talent or stun gun will not be able
to move or fire during the next enemy attack phase.

Firing a gun requires 3 movement points.  A psionic attack requires 10
movement points.

MOVEMENT
As with any other function, moving your marine will consume osome
movement points.  Each terrain type (grass, rocks, gratings) consumes a
different amount of mp when it is entered.  In order to move your current
marine into a new square, he must have at least as many mp as are
required to enter the square.

TERRAIN TYPE         MP REQUIRED    TERRAIN TYPE             MP REQUIRED
Clear                      2        Computer                       5
Dirt                       2        Terminal                       5
Grass                      2        Bed                            5
Light Vegetation           4        Bureau                         6
Heavy Vegetation (Breach1) 6        Table                          5
Rocky Dirt       (Breach1) 4        Small Chair            ÿ       4
Rubble                     4        Worker                         6
Stun Field                 8        Entry & Exit                   3
Stepping Stones  (Breach1) 4        Machinery                      6
Grating/Metal Floor        3        Dirt/Water                     4
Shaft                      5        Empty/Water     (Breach 1)     4
Open Door                  4        Command Chair   (Breach 1)     4
High Terrain               4?       Teleporter                     ?

The current marine will always occupy the center of the combat window.

Marines can move in the eight compass directions.  To move the marine to a
particular square on his current row or column, simply drag his 'course line'
by holding down a mouse button [starting with his square] and dragging it
where you want him to walk.   When finished, release the button.

To change a marine's facing without having to move the marine from his current
square, hold either shift key down and click on the adjacent square you wish
the marine to face.  This takes 1 movement point (mp).

In additon, you can make any marine who is visible in the combat window the
current marine by holding down the Alternate key and clicking the desired
marine.

COMBAT
Guns - 3 Movement points.   Laser Rifles, Laser Pistols, Stun Guns.

Grenades - Marines equip themselves with grenades by taking them from the
surrounding terrain.

Grenades will explode around friendly troops and it is possible to to detonate
one in the same square as the current marine.  Grenades will also detonate fuel
tanks in the same fashion as blasters.  Caution must be exercised when using
grenades!

Grenades explode in a 3:3 pattern, with the target in the center.

Rocket Launchers - Marines equip themselves with rockets and launchers by
taking them from the surrounding terrain or if outfitted by the scenario
writer.

A marine must have at least one rocket and one launcher in order to fire.

When a rocket is fired it travels in a straight line until it hits a valid
target (i.e. wall, a marine, etc) or leaves the edge of the combat zone.

Rockets will explode around friendly troops.  Rockets will also detonate fuel
tanks in the same fashion as blasters.  Caution must be exercised when using
rockets!

Rockets explode in a 4:4 pattern, with the target in the center.

Caution: Firing rockets at targets not readily visible may result in damage to
other marines or destruction of necessary mission objectives.

Psionic Stun - Only marines with the specialty of psionic talent can make a
psionic stun attack.  If a stun attack is successful, the affected target will
be stunned for the next combat round.  In addition, since vitality can
regenerate at a rate of 25% per round maximum, it will take several rounds
before the affectd target is back to full movement strength.

Psionic stuns will not travel through closed doors or walls.  It is possible
to stun your own troops, so look before you stun!  10 movement points.

TYPES OF MARINES
Squad Leader - The sqyad leader is your main character.  This is the only
type of marine who is created independantly of any scenarios.

Marauder - The marauder is the basic marine.  They have a fairly high level of
mobility.

Marauders usually comprise the majority of any squad.

Scout - Scouts usually can move farther than most other types, but have
a lower amount of equipment they can carry.

Infiltrator -  Infiltrators have the same armor as scouts but a slightly
less capable of carry a lot of equipment.

Infiltrators usually have cracking ability.
Cracking units are used when you need the floor plans for the current level.

Psionic Talent - Usually fast, and don't really need a gun but most are
effective if you need to sneak in without creating a lot of attention.

NOTES:
All of the intelligent enemies will guard any mission objectives that are
in their area.  If a marine is in the same area as a datapack, there
aren't any player marines around, and capturing datapacks is an
objective, then the enemy will guard the datapack until a player marine
enters the area.

The smaller intelligent enemies will use the shafts

Enemy marines will use rockets and grenades against your troops.

ENCUMBRANCE POINTS
There are fifteen different tyupe of objects which may be found in a
scenario.  Each of those objects has an encumbrance value.  Encumbrance
is a measure of the object's bulk.  Obviously, the bulker type of object,
the fewer of them the marine may carry.

OBJECT                 ENCUMBRANCE POINTS
Grenade                        1
Remote Charge                  5
Neutron Bomb                   5
Stimulant (Tablet)             1
Ammo                           2
MediKit                        3
Rocket                         3
Launcher                       7
Crack Unit                     9
Detector                       9
Shield                         1
Grav Belt                      6
Prisoner                       1
Datapack                       1

Marines carrying a large number of encumbrance points are subject to movement
point loss.

WHAT THEY ARE AND HOW TO USE THEM
Grenade - A short-range energy grenade.

When a grenade is selected, the mouse pointer turns into crosshair.
Place this crosshair over any point on the same row or column as the
current marine and click.  The marine does not need to be facing the
target.

Stimulant - A one-use syringe of a potent metabolic accelerator.  A shot of
stimulant will raise the marine's vitality level by 50% up to 100% maximum.
If the marine's health is 50% or less, there is the possiblity that he
may die from heart-shock.

When a stimulant is selected, the current marine will use the stimulant.

Ammo Clip - Holds ammunition for the blasters that each marine carries.  The
ammo clip is compatible with all of the different types of blasters.

When an ammo clip is selected, the current marine will add the contents
of the ammo clip is compatible with all of the different types of
blasters.

MediKit - Use of the medikit raises the marines health level by 50%, up to
100% maximum

When the medikit is selected the current marine will use it.

Rocker - Basically a flying version of the grenade.  A rocket must be filled
with a launcher.

When a rocket is selected, the current marine must also have a launcher is
order to use it.  The rocket will be fired in the direction of the current
marione's facing and will fly until it hits a target or leaves the playing
field.  A rocket has the same destructive force as a grenade.

Launcher - A light multiple-use rocket laucher.

When a launcher is selected, the current marine must also have a rocket in
order to use it.  A rocket will be fired in the direction of the current
marine's facing and will fly until it hits a  target or leaves the playing
field.

Crack Unit - A crack unit is a special device primarily intended for use by
Infiltrator (IF) mariens.  If it is successfully operated next to a computer
or terminal, it will dump all of the floor plans for the current level from
the opponent's computer system.

When a crack unit is selected and successfully operated, it will reveal
all of the wall and interior squares on the the current marine's level
and intergrate this data with any landscape which has already been
revealed by movement, et cetera.  If ther current marine is not next to a
terminal or computer, the crack unit will not reveal any new information
and it will show only the information which has been gathered thus far.

Detector - The detector is a special device primarily intended for use by
Scout (SC) marines which creates a radar scan of the surrounding terrain.  If
operated by a Scout, the detector will also reveal any enemy marines within
range and display them as flashing green squares on the Atari ST and as grey
squares on the Macintosh.

When a crack unit selected and successfully operated, it reveals a 17 by 17
area of the current level, centered around the current marine.  It will also
integrate this data with any landscape which has already been revealed by
movement.  If the scan is not successful, it will show only the information
which has been gathered thus far.

Shield - A shield will absorb any incoming firearms, or psionic attacks,
friend or foe.  A shield does not protect against grenades, or rockets.

This object does not need to be used because it activates automatically when
picked up.

Grav Shoes - a marine using grav shoes will float above the ground, ignoring
terrain costs and movement restrictions.  The only terrain types a belt will
not move through are closed doors, solid rock, and walls.  Every time grav
shoes are used, there is a 10% chance that teh marine will crash at the end of
his turn.

When gravshoes are selected, it remains active until the marine runs out of
movement points, you click the use icon again, select a different marine, or
click the Next button.  Once grav shoes are on, you may not take or drop
objects, use shafts open doors, use objects fire the gun, or use psionic power
until the shoes are off.  If the marine ends his turn over either a blank or a
deep water square, he will be killed and removed from the game.

Data Pack - Data packs are used for storing information.

A data pack cannot be used

Prisoner - Prisoners are captured personnel from your own government.

A prisoner cannot be used.

INTERIOR TERRAIN
Walls - The walls come in four types: heavy, medium, thin and storage.
Demo charges will destroy any type of wall; grenades will destroy only
thin and storage type wall.  Gunfire will not penetrate walls at all.

Marines cannot pass through or fly above walls squares using gravshoes.

Doors - Marines cannot move through closed doors

Glass doors require 3 mp to open, steel doors require 5 mp, and power doors
require 10 mp to open.

EXTERIOR TERRAIN
Deep Water - Marines cannot pass through deep water squares, although
they can fly over them if they are using gravshoes.

Shallow Water - no problem!

SPECIAL TERRAIN
Shafts - Shafts require 5 mp to enter, and another 5 mp to use.

The Entry Square - In order for your marines to enter the combat zone, this
square must not be blocked.

The Exit Square - If the current marine is on this square at the end of his
turn, he will be removed from the combat zone and will no longer be allowed to
fight.

Stun Fields - When a marine passes through a stun field, there is a chance
that he will be stunned and unable to move.  This chance is inversely
proportional to the marine's vitality.  For example, if a marine with a
vitality of 78% passes through a stun field, there is a 22% chance that he
will be stunned.

Empty (Black) Squares - Marines cannot pass through these squares,
although they can gly over them if they are using a gravbelt.

If a marine using gravshoes ends his turn over a black square, he will be
killed and removed from the game.

TERRAIN TABLE

TYPE                   MP'S TO ENTER   SPECIAL COMMENTS
Walls (All Types)        No Move       Cannot be flown over.
Solid Rock               No Move       Cannot be flown over.
Empty Interior              2
Dirt                        2
Grass                       2
Light Vegetation            4
High Terrain                4
Interior Rubble             4
Stun Field                  8
Deep Water               No Move        Can be flown over
Shallow Water               4
Grating                     3
Dropshaft                   5
Liftshaft                   5
Closed Doors             No Move        Cannot be flown over.
Open Doors                  4           Can be flown over
Computer                    5
Terminals                   5
Bed                         5
Buereau                     6
Table                       5
Chairs                      4
Worker                      6
Entry Square                3
Exit Square                 3
Machine                  No Move       Can be flown over
Half Water/Half Dirt        4
Half Water/Half Empty       4

End.
