                          CODE NAME:  SYSTEM 5

Typed by ???  Edited by PARASITE.


INSTRUCTIONS
       Welcome to the world of Espionage.

       Espionage is dangerously exciting and realy does happen.
Although espionage is usualy investigated internally by the
government, it is known that persons outside the government are
contracted to research personnel.

       As from now on we will not use the word "game" as
Espionage is not a game but a way of life and people can and do
get hurt.

THE PROCEDURE
       First you will need to log-on with the system 5's Network
unit. This is a central data base control unit situated in
London, England. It's purpose is specifically programed to help
you, but as you well know it's function is to tap into other
computers throughout the world. This is also known as HACKING,
and as hacking happens in the world today we must imform you that
your task is not the simplest of things, we must instruct the
terminal to withhold a good deal of imformation from outsiders.
It will offer you many alternatives and try to fool hackers.

M.I.N.D.
      Military Intelligence and National Database is situated in
New York, USA. The function of M.I.N.D. is to investigate any or
all of goverment affairs that can offer danger to personnel or
outsiders. the package you received will connect you to the
central terminal in London, which has direct link to M.I.N.D.

      M.I.N.D. is investigating an internal theft of TOP SECRET
documents from one of the many departments in the government
buildings in England. They have instructed one of their
intelligence men to find and inform someone of their needs. In
turn this person has contacted you (read letter).

      M.I.N.D. has a large database with all information needed
for their files, but of course they haven't got all information
on personnel. That is where you come in. They want you to pass on
this vital information. If they instruct you to contact them, do
so immediately and that uis IMMEDIATELY.

      There are security eliments of which you may come across or
others which may just creep up on you.There are no easy ways past
theses, you must accept them as part of security.

TRACERS
      Beware of the high security tracers who can trace your
signal if you can not get into a computer terminal while you are
on-line. This can be seen on your Status Board so keep a sharp
eye on the Static Count which the tracers equipment effect. A
static count of above 60 will cause the tracers to put a block on
your transmission and shut you down immediately and without
warning. i am sorry but we must keep the information that you
have received a priority Top Secret and we cannot inform the
tracers of your intentions or that you are working for M.I.N.D.

LETTER: TO WHOME IT MAY CONCERN
     First of all may i thank you for accepting this contract and
wish you the very best of luck.

     There has been a theft from one of our departments of
official Top secret plans for a nuclear powered space drive and
the blueprints of the base at which it is situated. We do not
want you to investigate their whereabouts or of whom stole them.
All we wish you to do is to forward the vital information on some
personnel within M.I.N.D. (there is a few who are working
undercover and will look suspect to you)

     I am now instucting you to leave wel alone all of which does
not concern you or your mission.

     We will inform you when we have completed our investigations
and then will terminate your contract of employment.

     As soon as you have connected up and logged-on your
equipment please contact with me through your bullitin boards
message page. I will endeavor to contact you as ofern as i can
and offer you help.

End.
