                        D.R.A.G.O.N. FORCE

Typed by Sycon.  Edited by PARASITE.


STARTING UP
 You start the game by picking your mission, from 1 to 12. Every missions
 is different (selected randomly) Then a screen with folders shows up,
 where you select you men for the mission...by clicking on the name you
 can his name, his code name, nation, and the specialties and attributes.
   Rank (self explanatory)
   Specialty: tells you what the guy does best.
 These are the specialties: Medic (not needed)
                             Demolition (if you wanna nuke the place)
                             Machine Guns (experts in machine guns)
                             SharpShooter (a sniper)
                             Scout (not needed)
                             Close Combat (good in close combat)
                             Anti-Tank (specialist in Tank destruction)

 The rest is self explanatory. I've played this game a lot and I recommend
 selecting your team that can carry the most weight. The following people
 can carry the most, 9 is max. (if you didn't change their names!):
   Bossman - 9,
   Greaser - 9,
   Whitey  - 9,
   Piper   - 8,

 The rest 7 or 6. Your team consists of 7 members. After you finished
 your selection, click DONE. Now the best part, getting you wares.

 MAIN LOAD - is the weapon that you will use most of the times, (you're
            holding it in your hands, another words...)
 SECONDARY LOAD - is the weapon that you have in your pocket or on your
                 back.
 GRENADES - how many grandes you carry with you.
 AMMO - the number of magazines you have, i will talk about this in better
        detail later.
 LAW - same as above.
 SATCHEL - explosive charges
 MAIN LOAD - the weight of MAIN LOAD.
 SEC. LOAD - same as above but SEC.LOAD
 TOTAL LOAD - the total weight you can carry.
 NEXT UNIT - goes to next member of the team.
 PREVIOUS UNIT - goes back to the previous unit.
 DROP ALL - drops all the MAIN LOAD, and SECONDARY LOAD.
 DROP MISC - drops all the misc. load.

 Next, click on the arrow next to MAIN LOAD. WOW! cool, now you pick your
 weapon (main) When you click on a weapon it will show you it's name,
 weight (load), size (in mm), ammo (how much ammo you get with it).

 I will only describe the best weapons (the ones i recommend)
 they are:

 M174 - automatic granade launcher, load 9 - max,
        AMMO 48 grandes. You cannot take anything else with it
        since it weights 9.

 M202A2 - rocket launcher (bazooka) - load 5, and 12 rockets.
          this sucker is my favorite, since all the other weapons for
          some reason are ineffective, that is; you shoot a guy and that
          mother-fucker just stands there! With this weapon you shoot'em
          and he goes to hell! it nukes tanks as well, and trees, and
          houses! neatto!

 M79 - Grenade Launcher (40 mm) - load - 3, has 48 grenades.
        I would choose this one over the M174, coz it weights less,
        and you can take more ammo later...

 SIXPACK - minigun (5.56mm) load 9, ammo - 900. The ammo lasts
           for only 9 shots since the gun shoots for like 10 or so
           seconds! Good, but not effective...that is; shoots around
           the target not in it!

  SVD - very good as a secondary load, snipper rifle, with 100 shots.
        load a mere - 3. Sometimes kills the guy with one shot, from
        far away.

 The rest of the weapons literaly suck! with UZI (which might seem to be
 the best) you can't do much, only in close combat, and that does not
 happen to often. The mortar would be nice but it is not accurate.
 Same thing with other heavy weapons like M60. M16 - sucks (same like UZI)
 (well in reality those weapons are the best!)

 So, for a guy that can carry 9, what I would pick is: M202A2 as a
 MAIN LOAD, nothing for a secondary load, and 4 loads of ammo (which
 you pick at the main screen, not the weapon selection!) Click on next
 unit do the same, you might wanna get a secondary weapon like SVD, but
 you don't really need it. In on of the missions you will need a satchel
 (don't know which one, coz they're random)

 When you picked the weapons for every member of the team you're ready
 to kick some ass! (click exit)

 Now you're shown a map, with seven geeks that look like boy scouts!
 That is your team! hehe! You make a move by clicking on the scout.
 When you do that you will be shown a screen on the right side that tells
 you what weapons he carries, and what actions he has to take. Clicking
 on FIRE will make him ready to shoot, clicking on duck will make him
 duck after his move or if someone shoots at him. The window that says
 IN HAND (what a sense of humor!) tells you what weapons you have active,
 (this is your MAIN LOAD) by clicking on NEXT you select other weapons
 that you have (SECONDARY LOAD) AMMO tells you how many shoots you can make
 with that particular gun. HLTH tells you his health level, at the beginning
 it says OK, for ok, later when you get shot that chnages, if it is red
 he'll be dead soon. (medic won't help, i tried it) clicking on OK will take
 you to another screen (on the right side), EXAMINE tells you details about
 this guy (look few lines above) CANCEL LAST - cancels his last order.
 MOVE TO makes move to a spot you specify. I use MOVE TO only, (never
 the arrows) FIRE AT WILL - will make him shoot if he detects an asshole or
 a lamer! this is the option i use all the time, since sometimes you don't
 see the enemy, but he will sniff 'em out and shoot (and probably kill 'em
 too!) FIRE AT SPOT - is a waste, unless you wanna nuke a house or a bridge.
 FIRE AT UNIT - will shoot the sucker you aimed at. He will get shot even
 if he moves. REPEAT FIRE - will reapeat firing at the place you aimed, even
 if the target is dead already. When you click on MOVE TO a cross will
 appear (and a priest will walk by and bless you!) with which you point
 to the location you want the guy to go to. He can make 5 moves. It will
 ask if you want to move CAUTIOUSLY click on YES or NO, YES will make him
 go very slowly, and duck, NO will make him go fast, no matter what happens.
 You move every guy, and then when you're finished click on either
 GO UNITL EVENT, or GO UNTIL INTERRUPT. GO UNTIL EVENT will make the
 team go until something happens (like an attack), GO UNTIL INTERRUPT will
 make them carry out orders until you interrupt with a click of the mouse
 button. Clicking on CHOPPER will call the helicopter to pick up your team.
 You call the helicopter when you complete your mission. MAP will display
 the whole territory. On the top it says: OPTIONS, this option lets you
 change the settings (sound 0/1, game speed) and the person you want to
 watch (your captain for example) SAVE defaults saves the settings,
 SAVE GAME saves the game. The second option is PROGRESS, that tells you
 how are you doing in your mission. CAS stands for casulties, HOS for
 Hostages, DMG damage, NEUT beats me! OVERALL; STATUS is the most important
 as you advance in the mission check this from time to time to see how are
 you doing, the ratings are VERY POOR, AVERAGE, GOOD, VERY GOOD, & EXCELLENT.
 Anyway, when you finish the mission it will tell you so...

 Now, back to the game...the first move you make is a "FREE" move, that is
 you will not be atacked by anyone. So get your scouts as far as you can,
 and try to spread them out...but not too much. A good tactical move is to
 move 4 men forward, and let the other 3 stay with the FIRE AT WILL option
 on, that will "cover" the guys you move. Then move the ones behind, and
 order the other 4 to FIRE AT WILL (which will cover the other 3 while
 they're moving) To kill the enemy (lamer); you either pick FIRE AT WILL,
 or FIRE AT UNIT, with FIRE AT UNIT you have to move the cross over the
 enemy you want to kill and click the button. You can REPEAT FIRE to make
 your guy shoot many times (up to 5) because very often one shoot won't kill
 the enemy (unless you use a M202 - bazooka) when you aim at him and it says
 NO LINE OF SIGHT it means he is either to far away or he is hidding.
 (by the way, you can hide too, behind trees, and on hills, or behind houses)
 When fighting missions where tanks are present use FIRE AT WILL (for the guy
 with the bazooka) or FIRE AT UNIT and aim at the middle of the tank. NEVER
 use FIRE AT SPOT to nuke a tank! since the tank moves! and never stays on
 the same spot!

End.
