                               ITALY 1990

Typed by TEDDYSTACKER on the ST.  Edited by PARASITE.


PLAYER CONTROL
For either team,the player you have direct control over, is
highlighted by a large arrow of the same colour as the
team,positioned below the player being controlled.
Control of the "HIGHLIGHTED" player continues until
either,movement stops,at which,the player of the same team who is
closest to the ball becomes active.

BALL CONTROL
The ball is able to move freely around the pitch when it is
kicked,but as soon as it is within a small distance of any player
it will be automatically "trapped".
The ball is then moved to a position relative to the direction of
the player.
Once a player has control of the ball,it will stay "locked" to
him until it is either kicked or taken from him by another
player.

KICKING THE BALL
When your player is in possession of the ball,he can kick it in
the direction he is facing by holding down "FIRE" and releasing
it when required.The amount of time "FIRE" is held down,combined
with the player`s strength determines the speed of the ball when
it is kicked.There is a maximum  amount of time that the button
can be held down,before the ball is kicked automatically.
You may also "chip" the ball by reversing the direction of your
player immediately after kicking it.
N.B. More powerful kicks will cause the ball to travel above the
ground automatically.

HEADING THE BALL
When the ball is close to your player,but still in the air,you
can "head" the ball by pressing and releasing "FIRE".However,holding
down "FIRE" has no effect on the speed of the ball.

TACKLING
There are two ways that your player can tackle:

NORMAL TACKLE
If your player`s attempting to tackle,facing the player in
possession,he has a chance of taking the ball according to the
relative skill factors of the players.If your player is behind,
however,he cannot tackle in this fashion.

SLIDING TACKLE
When your player is not in possession of the ball,pressing "FIRE"
will initiate a "sliding tackle".This causes your player to
"slide" in the direction he was facing,during which time he
cannot be controlled.If your player comes close to the player in
possession of the ball whilst he is sliding,he may or may not
take the ball,according to the relative skill factors.However,if
your player "slides in" from behind the other player,there is a
chance a foul will occur.

GOALKEEPERS
If your goalie is under "control" he moves in the same fashion as
the other players.However ,if the ball is not under the control
of your team and the player closest to the ball is from the
opposing side then "FIRE" combined with the direction of the
joystick causes the goalie to dive.

SET PIECES
The various "set pieces" (i.e. kick off,throw in,corner kick,goal
kick,free kick and penalty) that occur during the game ,all
behave  in a similar fashion with regards to control of the
player in possession of the ball.Namely,the direction and speed
of the ball when it leaves the player.In all cases,play is
suspended until "FIRE" is pressed and released.

GOAL KICKS AND CORNERS:
These take the form of animated sequences in which a player is
seen to run to the ball and kick it,when "FIRE" is pressed.The
direction and length of time "FIRE" is held down still determines
the balls direction and speed.

PENALTIES:
These take the form of a separate graphic screen,using the
viewpoint of the player who is taking the penalty.As before,the
direction of the joystick  determines the region of the goalmouth
that either the ball will travel towards or the goalie will dive
towards,"FIRE" causes the player to kick the ball or the goalie
to dive in that direction.

KEYBOARD CONTROLS

SHIFT + H  =  Toggles Hold / Pause Mode

SHIFT + T  =  Quits The Game

Only Joystick Control is Possible, Ports As Follows:

              Port 0 - Player 2 / Computer
              Port 1 - Player 1

End.
