                                 SUPER HUEY

Typed by SIDEWINDER of LSD.

So this might be an old game, but it was a coverdisk recently, and you
lot will pirate anything!


Once the game has loaded, pressing the F7 key powers up your chopper's
computer, allowing you to select your mission by typing its name into the
computer (ie school).
The Gameplay: Super Huey is split into four distinct missions: a tutorial
mode, an exploration mission, a combat exercise, and a rescue mission.  For
the main part, the joystick and the firebutton will guide the helicopter and
steer it.
And that's it basically.  The Huey's controls are ideal for the first-time
pilot, and allow you to familiarise yourself with taking-off and landing.
The missions are easy to get into without being a walk-over to complete, and
all we can say is good luck - you'll be needing it!

TAKE OFF PROCEDURE
1)      Turn on the computer with the F7 key, then enter MISSION to select
        an assignment.
2)      Enter the POW command to turn on power.
3)      Start the engine by pressing F8.  Wait for the engine temperature
        gauges warm up to middle range then increase the throttle to bring
        the engine RPM up to about 1200 RPM.
4)      Engage the rotor clutch (F9).  Wait for the rotor RPM to stabilise at
        around one tenth of the engine RPM.
5)      Increase throttle to build RPM to take off speed (3500-3600).
6)      Increase lift by pressing fire and pulling back on the stick.
        Equalise lift to hover at around 100ft (by pushing forward and fire).

Pushing forward on the stick (without fire) tilts the helicopter forward,
generating speed.  Pulling left or right banks the craft.  The forward
diagonals control the rudder, this lets you turn the copter without tilting
or losing altitude.  Be careful, though, as the controls are fairly
responsive, and you won't need to keep pressing the joystick in one direction
to move, it just takes a little time (as in the real thing), so have a little
patience or you'll end up crash landing!  Another thing to note is that once
you have set the angle of your turn, this angle then remains until you alter
it.  So once you are banking at, say, thirty-five degrees, you will continue
to do so until you change the angle.

COMMANDS
F1      Loads rocket into bay one.  Press again to arm it.
F2      Loads rocket into bay two.  Press again to arm it.
F3      Loads rocket into bay three.  Press again to arm it.
F4      Loads rocket into bay four.  Press again to arm it.
F5      Arms the UH-1XA's machine guns (combat missions only).
F6      Not used.
F7      Powers on board computer.
F8      Starts engine.
F9      Engages rotor clutch.  It is not advisable to engage rotor clutch
        until the engine exceeds 1200 RPM.
F10     Cuts the engine power.
Left Amiga Key - Fires rockets.
Right Amiga Key - Fires machine guns.

COMPUTER COMMANDS
Enter at least three letters of the command.  Make corrections with the DEL
key.  Press return after each command.

ABORT     -     End current mission.
AUTO      -     Set automatic course correction.  When prompted by SET enter
                compass heading.  Auto only works when there's no manual
                control input.
CLIMATE   -     Display current climatic conditions including temperature,
                humidity, and barometric readings.
DISTANCE  -     Displays line of sight distance from take off point.
HOMING    -     Drop a homing device that transmits directional signal to the
                navigation computer.
MISSION   -     Selects new mission, then enter School for the training
                mission, Explore for the exploration mission, Combat for the
                air battle and Rescue for the rescue mission.
POWER     -     Turn on power.
SEND      -     Send coordinates when landing or during emergency.
VOR       -     Activates VHF range reception for navigation.
VSI       -     Displays digital vertical speed reading.
XXX       -     Cancel previous command input.

THE MISSIONS:

FLIGHT INSTRUCTION
The computer will guide you in the basic take off, manoeuvring and landing
procedure.

EXPLORATION
The essential task of this mission is to map the terrain than surrounds your
base.  Mapping can be a very long and involved process that is probably best
done in stages.  The area to be explored is quite large, and contains many
features.  Map within a five mile radius.

RESCUE
Military personnel are stranded.  They are transmitting from a homing device
whose heading will register on your rescue display.  But since your briefing
only indicates that the general location of the party is unknown, careful
ground covering and search techniques must be employed.  At an elevation that
permits visual detection of the ground party, select a quadrant and establish
a search pattern that allows for the transmission range of their device -
five to ten miles.  When you've located the party land and they'll board.
then return to base a hero.

AIR BATTLE
Based in a desert you have to do battle with an unidentified enemy.  Your
helicopter carries twenty missiles and two thousand cannon rounds, with which
you have to face an enemy force of thirty-two helicopters.

End.
