                           SUPER CYCLE

Typed by ???  Edited by PARASITE.


CHOOSE YOUR DIFFICULTY LEVEL.
     At  any  time while racing,  pressing function key  F10  will
return  you to the Title Screen.   From the TITLE  SCREEN,  RACING
SCOREBOARD,  or SELECT SCREEN, pressing F1 takes you to the top of
the RACING SCOREBOARD.   On the RACING SCOREBOARD, F3 scrolls down
and F4 scrolls up.

     To clear out the names and scores from the RACING SCOREBOARD,
simply press the function key F9 while viewing the SCOREBOARD.

INTRODUCTION
     Open  road racing -- wheel to wheel -- piston  screaming  and
rubber burning.   That's the challenge of SUPER CYCLE.  Before you
begin,  choose your machine and your leathers.   Choose carefully,
there's an ordeal ahead.

     You and your machine will be pushed to the max by the course,
The other competitors, and the relentless clock.

     You  must  complete each of the race courses  within  a  time
limit in order to continue.  Crash, and you lose valuable seconds.
Each  of the more than seven courses poses unique  challenges   --
water  on  the road,  ice,  road barricades  and  other  dangerous
obstacles.  When you see a road sigh that means slippery when wet,
you better listen.

     There's day and night courses,  city and country,  hills  and
mountains,  desert courses and streaking through the sunlight next
to Cape Canaveral.

     Accelerate up through the gears, jockey for position and bump
the  other riders.   Go for top speed,  but try not to go  out  of
control.

     Good luck.   Your reflexes better be as sharp as the turns up
ahead.

OBJECTIVE
     You must complete each race course within the specified time,
in  order to go on to the next course.   Watch out for  the  other
riders -- you can bump them and they can bump you.   Steer through
the  pack,  and avoid road obstacles -- crashing eats up  valuable
time.   Complete  all the courses at one of the difficulty  levels
and  you can get a checkered flag next to your name on the  racing
scoreboard.

THE CONTROLS
     Push forward on the joystick to accelerate,  and pull back to
slow down.  Push left or right with the joystick to steer.

     There are three gears.  To gear up, push the joystick forward
and  press the fire button.   With the joystick  centered,  simply
press  the  fire button to gear down.   The three  lights  in  the
center of the dash indicate what gear you're in.  The top light is
the highest gear.  The bottom light is the lowest gear.  The light
is colored yellow for the gear you're in.

RACING
     Each  course has a set time limit.   The bottom of your  dash
shows your elapsed tie,  and your total points.  The more distance
you cover, the more points you accumulate.

     Watch  out for road conditions and  unusual  obstacles.   You
never know what you're going to find out there.   Lamp posts,  oil
slicks,  even road pylons that narrow the course to a single lane.
Watch  for special bonus flags -- hit those for extra  points  and
time.

     Time  it  just right,  cut and accelerate with  split  second
precision,  and  you could end up on top.   On top of  the  racing
scoreboard!

End.
