                            THE LAST TROOPER

Typed by KING TUT.  Edited by PARASITE.


Climb into your camo gear, load up that machine gun and go for it!  Feel
the adrenalin course through your veins as you escape from a prison camp
and battle through the enemy's defences.  Are YOU trooper enough to
destroy their base?

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
Connect your computer and monitor together according to the
manufacturer's instructions, put the disk in drive A and switch on.
Last Trooper load automatically.  Leave well alone for about a minute,
and you'll be treated to a rolling demo of the levels that await.

CONTROLS
The landscape scrolls diagonally in four directions, and there are two
joystick control modes, toggled by the J key--try both modes to find
which one you are most comfortable with.  In mode on 'e' movement is
achieved by shifting the stick left, right, up and down while in mode
two the diagonal directions are used:  up/left, up/right, down/left and
down/right.

Providing you have some ammunition, the fire button shoots the gun:
holding fire down for half a second while the trooper is carrying a
grenade kills all the enemy soldiers on screen.

M toggles music on/off
S toggles sound effects on/off
P pauses game; fire or P to restart
A aborts current game

OBJECTS
The trooper, hard though he is, can only carry three things at a time.
Walk him over an object, and if he can pick it up, he will.  Food, which
replenishes energy, and ammunition (useful for killing guards) don't
count amongst the three objects that the trooper can carry--they just
replenish the corresponding status readouts.  In the later levels, where
bombs have to be placed on targets, all your man has to do is walk over
the appropriate spot while he is carrying a bomb and it is automatically
dropped.

Look out for the lightning symbol which appears from time to time--walk
the trooper into it, and he becomes invincible for a while.  While the
enemy meter is flashing the soldier becomes super hard, and can walk
into guards, absorb bullets and stomp over minefields with impunity.

THE GAME OBJECTIVE
With little more than a set of designer camo gear, a machine gun and
three lives, your man has a mission.  A mission to escape from the
holding compound of a prisoner of war camp, fight through the enemy's
defences, collect up bombs and sabotage the bad guys' underground HQ.
Life insurance is difficult to get as a commando, so to really succeed
in the mission the hero needs to plant his explosives in the enemy base
and escape before they detonate.

LEVEL ONE
On the first level, the four strands of wire surrounding the POW
compound have to be cut before the mission can begin.  Four cheap
Taiwanese wire cutters have been left lying around by the guards--they
are only good for cutting one strand of wire each, so a couple of trips
to the same section of the fence are called for.  If the trooper is
carrying a pair of cutters, nudging him against the fence cuts the wire.

After breaking out of the inner defences, a key has to be collected to
open the steel door that leads to the outer perimeter wall of the
prison. To make good the escape, trooper needs a rope to scale the wall,
a passport and a disguise.  Clamber over the outer wall with the rope
and go to one of the orange squares which lead to the next level.

LEVELS TWO AND THREE
War is hell.  Fighting a war single-handed is really hellish.  But
that's what you have got to do here, taking on the enemy's crack troops
as you attempt to penetrate the defences that surround the objective--an
underground bunker.  In between dealing death and dodging bullets, make
sure you collect all the bombs on the way--without them, there's no hope
of destroying your target.

LEVEL FOUR
A welcome dose of R and R awaits the trooper if he can pull this one
off...Bombs have to be laid in specific rooms in the bunker, but some of
the doors are locked so it's off in search of the appropriate keys.
Once the bombs collected in levels two and three have been put in the
right place, the enemy HQ will be destroyed.  So will trooper, if he
doesn't get out in time.

End.
