                        THE LAST NINJA 2

Typed by KING TUT.  Edited by PARASITE.


THE LAST NINJA 2
They didn't just murder your father, though that alone would be
grounds for revenge of the fiercest kind.

And they didn't just slay your brothers, or kill only your closest
friend.

The evil Shogun Kunitoki and the Ashikaga Clan slaughtered the ENTIRE
BROTHERHOOD OF THE NINJA, the Mystic Shadow Warriors.

Kunitoki and his clan had long been envious of the Mystic Shawdow
Warriors. They were jealous of your mastery of weapon craft.  They
coveted your unerring mental prowess.  And they yearned to discover
the secrets of your magical powers.

So the crafty Kunitoki waited.  Patiently.  He waited for the warriors
to make thier once-in-a-decade piligrimage to the Island of Lin Fen.

It was here, on the Island of Lin Fen, that you paid homage to the
Shrine of the White Ninja.  It was here that you received further
teachings from the Koga Scrolls.  And it was here that Kunitioki and
the Ashikaga clan--with the help of all the demon spirits of the
Netherworld--annihilated every member of the Mystic Shadow Warriors.

Every member but you, that is.

As the spirits would have it, you alone were left behind on this
fateful pilrimage, to quard the Bunkinkan Shrine.  It was a traditon
that began at the dawn of the Ninja.  Someone was always chosen to be
left behind as a safeguard, should any disaster ever befall the
brotherhood when it gathered at Lin Fen.

Though it was considered an honor to stay behind and guard the
Bunkinkan Shrine, you were not happy about it.  For you were supposed
to have had the honour of reading the Koga Scrolls. At the time, you
though you would have to wait another decade for this opportunity.
But now, time has proven you wrong.

Word of the shocking disaster has now reached you.  At first, it takes
all your strengh just to overcome your sorrow.  But you must gather
all your courage, all your strenght, all your confidence to go and
wreak revenge on the Shogun and his followers.

The Shogun Kunitoki and his men are still there--degrading the
spiritual peace of your sacred Island of Lin Fen.

Alone, you must go to the Island of Lin Fen.  Alone, you must punish
the evil of your brotherhood's treacherous assassins.

ISLAND OF LIN FEN
Many centuries ago, the brotherhood of the Ninja chose the Island of
lin Fen as the site for their Shrine of the White Ninja.  It was the
place where they could gather EN MASSE, decade after  decade.  And a
place where the Koga Scrolls could be carefully hidden from the rest
of the world.

The Island of Lin Fen is as treacherous as it is beautiful.  In fact,
with its craggy coastline, unassaible cliffs, and cascading rivers,
it's a natural fortress.

Deep in the center of the island stands the Palace of Lin Fen. Another
fortress-- but this one crafted by the very hands of th eMystic
Shawdow Warriors.

Having been to the island once as a young acolyte, you have a vague
memory of where certain paths and passages are located. But then, it
was over ten years ago that you were there.  You were very young.  And
much has change.

THE SIX LOCATONS ON THE ISLAND OF FIN FEN
The island is divided into six different regions.  Each has its own
special beauty. And its own deadly dangers.  Plus, the Shogun Kunitoki
has stationed his henchmen at every turn.

These are the six regoins:
1.THE WASTELANDS-Probably the most beautiful wastelands you have ever
visited. And certainlly the most dangerous.

2.THE WILDERNESS-The deeper you go, the more treacherous become the
crags and cilffs. One false move and you'll plunge to the infinite
depths below.

3.THE PALACE GARDENS-It's amazing how a place seemingly so civilized
can house so many hazards.

4.THE DUNGEONS-Here your worst nightmares materialize before your
eyes. However, there is one things tha's not so obvious: the way out

5.THE PALACE-What a pity to see your scared Lin Fen Place inhabited by
the evil Ashikaga Clan.  But what's worse is what comes later.

6.THE INNER SANCTUM-You are now so close. And yet--until you locate th
hidden passage--so far.

LIST OF ALL THE ITEMS YOU MAY INCOUNTER
POUCH--Without it you can't carry small objects.

KEY--this opens the door to success.

NUMCHUKAS--a weapon essential to the art of the Ninja.

SWORD-A powerful weapon.

APPLE--It gives you an extra life.

SMOKE BOMB--There's no smoke without fire.

CLAW-Claw you way up. Or down.

GLOVE--Be carefull what you touch.

STAFF--One of the strongest of weapons.

SHURIKEN STARS-A good aim ensures instant death, but remember, your
supply is limited.

AMULET--To give is no greater than to receive.

FLOWER--A vase is waiting.

ROPE--Could this be the means out?

BOTTLE--Sleeping potion.

SCROLLS--Once found, your quest is completed.

HINTS ANDS TIPS
1. Remember to pick up every item you see.

2. You only have two hands.  And since you are always carrying your
sheath, you have only one hand left to hold something else.

3. The shrines shun instruments of death.

4. Throw smoke bomb under dragon, to defeat him.****

End.
