                                TV SPORTS BASKETBALL

Typed by DESERT WOLF.  Edited by PARASITE.

NOTE:  These are not the full docs. I have put the main needed info and
       keyboard commands to get started.


THREE AND FOUR PLAYER OPTION
   TV Sports: Basketball allows up to 4 players to play simultaneously
   during exhibition games. To play with more than 2 platers, you must plug
   a Parallel port joystick Adapter into your parallel port. You may use the
   F6 key to toggle joysticks three and four on and off during the
   substitution screen. Activating the third and fourth joysticks
   automatically turns on the Roleplaying option.

   The first press of the F6 key places these new players in the available
   spaces on the home team. The next press places them on the visiting team,
   and the third press removes them. For example, in a three-on-three
   Teammates game the first press places J3 (joystick three) on the home team.
   The second press places both J4 and J4 on the visiting team, and the third
   press eliminates them.

TIPOFFS
   At the beginning of all five-on-five, full-length games, the tipoff appears.
   The jumper on th left is on the home team; the one on the right is from the
   visiting team., Press your button to crouch and release it to jump for the
   ball. In a two-player game, the referee does not throw the ball until at
   least one player crouches. If you do not release the button, the computer
   will eventually jump for you, but you are unlikely to win the tipoff.

TO MAKE SUBSTITUTIONS:
   Move the basketball cursor to the player you want to rest and press the
   button. This player is now highlighted. Move the cursor to the player on
   the bench you wish to put in the game and press the button again. The two
   players switch places.

TO CHANGE DEFENSIVE ASSIGNMENTS:
   Use the cursor to select your player,then move it to the other team and
   select the opponent you wish your player to guard. You may use this method
   to double-team an opponent, or just to switch the assignments of your
   players.

TO HAVE PLAYERS TRADE POSITIONS:
   Use the cursor to select one player, then select another player. The two
   players trade positions. You may, for example, have your forwards switch
   sides or have the center and a guard trade positions.

TO CHANGE THE PLAYER YOUR JOYSTICK CONTROLS:
   When using the Roleplaying option, select the player you want to control
   and press the button, then move the basketball back to him and press the
   button again. The joystick indicator appears in the box under that player.
   Each change take effect as soon as you make it.

THE PLAYCALLING SCREEN
   The playcalling screen appears during the game whenever the players are
   crossing mid-court. During this screen, you do not control the players, but
   are setting up the next play. At the top center of the screen is a small
   half-court diagram that represents the offensive players' positions; it
   does not show their actual positions on the court. On either side of this
   diagram is a roster of the players in the game for each team. One side
   is highlighted; that team is on offense. The basketball icon is positioned
   next to the current ballhandler between his points (PTS) and personal
   fouls (PF).

   For each offensive player, there is a red arrow or dot located between
   their number and their name on the roster. These show the direction to
   push the joystick (the doc indicates a button press) to select that player.
   The offensive team selectes a player to try to get open, and the defensive
   team chooses an opponent to guard move closely. When you choose a player,
   your team's name flashes to confirm that you have made a selection.

PASSING:
   Passing is the fastest way to move the balll around the court, although
   it is a bit more risky than dribbling. When one of your teammates thinks
   he is open he will raise his hands to signal for the pass. (You always
   have one player that is at least partially open). Tap your button to throw
   the ball to him. Time your passes carefully to avoid having the ball stolen.

SHOOTING:
   Shooting basically involves two moves: jumping up and releasing the ball.
   Holding down the button causes your player to jump up and releasing the
   button him to release the ball. Release the button when he reaches the top
   of his jump to shoot most effectively. If you do not release the ball, you
   will be called for traveling and the ball is turned over to the other team.
   Remember to hold the button while the player is going up; if you just tap
   the button you pass the ball whether there is a safe pass or not.

   NOTE: If some of your opponent's players are directly between you and the
   basket, do not push the joystick toward the basket when you shoot or you
   may be called for charging.

FREE THROWS:
   Push and hold the button then release when the green line is centered. The
   closer to the middle, the more chance of making a free throw. Shooting
   ability affects this. A player with poor ability may miss the shot if the
   line is dead center.

PLAYING DEFENSE:
   "Offense sells tickets;defense wins games"

   When playing defense, try to do three things. First, when guarding the
   ballhandler, try to force him to pick up his dribble. To do this, keep
   getting in his way. Once he picks it up, he must pass or shoot. Stay close
   to him and stay in front of him. Make him go around you. If he gets by you
   press your button to switch to the player closest to him (unless of course,
   you are in Roleplaying mode)

   Also, try for the turnover. There are several ways you can take the ball
   away from the other team. When guarding the ball handler, press the
   button to attemp to steal. If you can force a violation, your team gets
   the ball. If your attempts fail, you may be called for a foul.

   Finally, when the man shoots, try to block his shot. To do this, press the
   button when he goes up for the shot. Timing is a big factor -- if you can
   jump at the samr time as your opponent, your chances increase. As in
   stealing, unsuccessful block attempts often result in foul calls.

TIME-OUTS
   Only the team in possession of the ball can call a time-out.First you must
   press the spacebar(pausing the game), then press your button. You are
   prompted to press a button so a time-out is not called by mistake. The
   game can be paused at any time by pressing the spacebar. The number of
   time-outs each team gets depens on the length of the game.

   Length            Number of Timeouts per half.
   3 mins                 2
   6 mins                 3
   9 mins                 4
  12 mins                 5

FOULING OUT
   A player is allowed to commit a limited number of personal fouls before he
   fouls out of the game. The number of fouls permitted depends on the length
   of the game.

   Length of each quarter      Fouls to foul out
   3 mins                             3
   6 mins                             4
   9 mins                             5
  12 mins                             6

OVERTIME
  No game can end in a tie. in 9 - 12 minute games overtime is 5 minutes,
  in 3-6 minute games, the overtime period is 2 minutes.

INSTANT REPLAY
   During play,you may press the F10 key to view an instant replay of the last
   sequence. Your joystick controls the action just like the buttons on a VCR.
   Push forward on with joystick to replay forward at normal speed. Pull back
   to reverse at normal speed. Right will play forward at double speed while
   left will reverse at double speed. Press the button and move the joystick
   forward to see the replay in slow motion forward, or pull the joystick
   back with the button depressed to see the slow motion replay in reverse.
   Press F10 again to resume play. When you resume play, the play will
   continue as if it were not interrupted.

PASSING F2:
   This lets you toggle between Player-controlled Passing and the simpler
   computer-assisted passing. If player-contrlled passing is selected , you
   have complete control of the passing game. When one of your teammates gets
   open, he raises his hands. Move your joystick in the direction you want to
   pass the ball and tap the button. The computer selects the safest pass to a
   player in the direction you're facing. Player-controlled passing is more
   difficult than computer-assisted passing and should only be used by
   advanced players. Turn on the cursor for help in selected a safe pass.

CURSOR F3:
   When you are using player controlled passing, turning on the cursor on
   makes passing easier. (this is always on in comp-assisted), The passing
   cursor is an orange circle that appears on the player who is most open,and
   the cursor has that player's number on it. The color of the number inside
   the curson indicates the relative safety of the pass. A green number
   represents a safe pass. A red number marks a somewhat-risky pass, a white
   number means a very-risky pass. If you are not using this you can only
   watch to see if the players hands go up to indicate that he is open.
   A green cursor does not stay green for long; it can change to red or white
   or even disappear altogether. Therefore, pass the ball as soon as you can.

ROLEPLAYING F4:
   The Roleplaying function lets you select a player and 'become' that player.
   You can only control that selected player. On the substitution screen,
   move the basketball cursor to the player you want to control and press the
   button once. The cursor moves to DONE, so move it back to the player and
   presss the button again. The joystick indicator is now on this player. When
   you return to the game and think you are open for the pass, tap the button
   to call for the ball.

FATIGUE F5:
   This turns on whether fatigue will be factor. To switch a player out
   select the man to be switched and then pick a player on the roster.

RATINGS

SHOOTING:
   The shooting rating refers to outside shooting. Whether a shot is made is
   determined by his shooting ability, proximity of a defender and his
   defensive ability, jumping, momentum, and the timing of the button release.

PASSING/BALLHANDLING:
   The passing rating affects the number of passes stolen, the chance of
   the defender to stop you while you are dribbling, and the number of passes
   showed as safe(green). A player with good passing rating has more
   opporunities to make safe passes.

DEFENSE:
   The defense rating affects the player's ability to force the ballhandler
   to pick up the dribble, to steal passes and the number of fouls called
   againse the player.

REBOUNDING:
   The higher the rebounding rating, the more likely player is to get a
   rebound. Rebounding is also affected by height and jumping ability.

QUICKNESS:
   The quickness rating does not have any direct correlation to a particular
   skill, but affects how fast a player moves around on court, how often
   he gets open for passes, how effective he is on the fast break, and how
   closely he can guard a opponent.

JUMPING:
   Overall, this determines how high a player jumps, but also has an impact
   on rebounding, blocking shots, and shooting. Better jumpers are more
   effective in these areas.

   The ranking of a team's coach has a subtle effect on the game. A well-
   coached team shoots free throw more accurately, makes more steals, and
   turns the ball over less frequently.

PRINTING STATISTICS:
   You may print out statistics for the last game player and for the current
   league season, as well as the team rosters. Reel 2 contains three files:
   Gamestats.prt, Seasonstats.prt and Rosters.prt. These are normal text file.
   To print them, you may use any word processing program or the following
   AmigaDOS command:

   copy REEL2:(filename) prt:

SUMMARY OF GAME KEYS
   [F2] - At substitution screen, TOGGLES BETWEEN player-controlled and
          computer-assisted PASSING MODES.

   [F3] - At substitution screen, TOGGLES PASSING CURSOR on and off.

   [F4] - At substitution screen, TOGGLES ROLEPLAYING MODE on and off.

   [F5] - At substitution screen, TOGGLES FATIGUE on and off.

   [F6] - At substitution screen, TOGGLES JOYSTICKS 3 AND 4 from home team
          to visiting team to off.

   [F10] - During play, cuts to INSTANT REPLAY. During instant replay, returns
           to game.

   [SPACE BAR] - During play, PAUSE GAME, during pause, button for timeout.

End.
