

                           RELICS OF DELDRONEYE II

                            SPECIAL DEMO VERSION!

                              Island Of Debreen

                        By Christopher and Lee Bamber
                             Music by Steve Gane
                    Testing by The Digital Ninja Network

   This is a Demo, don`t you know
   ------------------------------
   That's right.  Somewhere in our wonderful world is a full 5 disks of
   adventure to sink your teeth into.

   As a bribe-like offering, this demo has been created by extracting a
   rather cunning puzzle from the story and squeezing it onto a disk.
   The full manual has been included, so too has every control from the
   game except the save feature (obviously you don't need to store your
   position with only a few scenes to solve).

   Please have a go...see if you can escape the enclosure.  If you do,
   and fall into nothingness, you may want to land.  This is simple.
   The full version is available right now from one of the best and nicest
   licenceware companies this side of Egypt, F1 Software.

   To purchase the full 5 disk wonder that is `Relics Of Deldroneye 2
   just send a cheque for £7.99 +50p p+p (£8.49) to F1, make the cheque
   payable to 'F1 Licenceware' by the way Licenceware means poor
   little me will get some money from your purchase, and I will be very
   very happy.You will also get a free F1 cat disk with your order.

   Contact F1 Software: 31 Wellington Road,
                        Exeter,
                        Devon,
                        EX2-9DU.

                        Tel: 01392-493580
                        E-Mail: steve@dcandy.demon.co.uk



   Brief History
   -------------
   Due to popular demand - and how.  Relics II continues the expanding saga
   of Falcon on his quest to solve a mystery which has been hidden from the
   people of Deldronis for over a thousand years.

   The Beginning

   Falcon, a royal explorer for the court of Deldronis, searched tirelessly
   for the fabled treasures of the old Deldroneye.   It was his quest,  and
   regarded the highest authority on the ancient Relics Of Deldroneye.

   His first, major discovery was interupted by a mercenary mob of Medivian
   terrorists.  The treasures where hoarded by the Medivian soldiers, taken
   from the dig site and where never seen again.  Falcon was accused of the
   theft and imprisoned.  The terrorists, meanwhile, returned to the palace
   and held the king ransom for an impossible price.

   Falcon eventually escaped and sought passage back to Deldronis, smuggled
   illegally by an operative of the Spam Syndicate in time to save the king
   and eliminate the terrorist threat (er, and the terrorists).

   Falcon, summarily was shockingly exiled from the palace.   No reason was
   given.  The Syndicate,  whom he had received the timely help,  requested
   his services in payment for their earlier 'favour'.  Returning to Zantis
   it was clear the town was in trouble.   It did not take  Falcon long  to
   resolve the conflict and restore peace in the city.

   Falcon was rewarded with a very expensive spaceship and some new cloths.
   Fair payment indeed from what was regarded a cut-throat gang of criminal
   and insane megalomaniacs.

   The Story So Far

   You, embodied in the role of Falcon, have returned to the palace to seek
   reunification with your royal family.   They have refused you entry, and
   marched you rather efficently back to the space port.   Without  further
   persistence, you leave the planets orbit and begin your new  life  as  a
   space wanderer.

   However, you don't wander very far when two unidentified space vessels
   are picked up on your long range radar.  A freak occurance in what is a
   rather silent corner of space.  As the determined adventurer you are,
   and having nothing better to do, you decide to investigate.

   Thus your adventure will begin, encased in 15 tonnes of spacecraft, light
   years away from a living sole; in deep trouble.

   The Layout
   ----------
   The screen will be split up into three segments.  The Scene, the prompt
   and the control panel.

   The Scene will depict the location of Falcon, where anything of interest
   will be highlighted when the mouse pointer moves over it.  Be that items
   to collect, people to talk to, creatures to avoid or objects to examine.

   While examining the scene, at any time, you can select the RIGHT mouse
   button to perform a standard action based on what you are highlighting.
   If it was a person, you would try and talk to them.  If it was a key on
   a table, you would attempt to pick it up.  If it was a painting on a
   wall, you would simply look at it.  If you select the LEFT mouse button
   while highlighting something of interest, you will simply walk to it.

   The text prompt located in the center of the screen describes an action
   of your own choice you wish to perform.  You may construct this action
   by using the verbs in the control panel and any object in the scene or
   your own pocket(inventory).

   PROGRAMMERS NOTE:  Unlike many of the latest arcade adventure writers,
   I happen to think the VERB Panel provides an essential ingredient to
   the adventure genre.  I'm sad to see the trend has dropped it in favour
   of logical selection and simplistic character control.  Even to replace
   the written word with the pictorial representation of the action gives
   me the shudders.  To think that the genre is moving further and further
   towards the interactive cartoon spells out only one thing.  And it ain't
   equal opportunities!  Alas, I have been greatly influenced by the text
   adventure, and as such, am doomed to view the new style of adventure as
   a shallow attempt at portraying the limitless world of imagination.
   Text will never happen again, but such is life.

   The Controls
   ------------
   Simple.  Use the VERBS (That's MOVE, TAKE, LOOK, USE, OPEN, CLOSE, TALK,
   SHOW and GIVE) along with the game objects to form simple sentences that
   can be carried out by Falcon.

   Within reason, he will do what you ask, eg:

   MOVE TO Door
   TAKE Apple
   USE Apple ON Apple-Monster
   OPEN Door
   CLOSE Cupboard
   LOOK AT Cupboard

   And a special multiple action can be summoned by using the BOOT & FIST
   Object found in your inventory at the start of the game.

   USE Boot&Fist ON Button              = Will press the button
   USE Boot&Fist ON Football            = Will kick football
   USE Boot&Fist ON Cat                 = Could either kick or stroke cat!

   You have the verbs, as described.  You also have an inventory panel that
   shows what items you are carrying, which can be scrolled  by  using  the
   arrows.  Also, you can select from an inventory of  carried  objects  or
   a selection of character statements you have remembered.

   The Extra Panels
   ----------------
   To start with, you are given your inventory panel.  Showing the three
   boxes containing whatever you may be carrying, with arrows to move
   between a selection greater than three.

   If you select the HALF MOON icon, in the top right corner of the control
   panel, you will be given a second panel.  This works exactly like the
   inventory panel, but instead of storing objects, it stores your memories.
   Should any character tell you something of some importance, you will
   remember it and be able to recall who it was that said it and what
   EXACTLY they said!  Such a facility will help you solve the problems you
   will encounter as your actual memory fails from day to day.

   The last icon, depicting a few lines of (admittedly very small text), is
   a simple reminder of who designed, wrote, coded, tested and released the
   game so you could spend three weeks totally bombed at the very first
   puzzle.

   As you can no doubt imagine, the control of the game is extremely easy
   and after five minutes of clicking, you will start to enjoy the best of
   both worlds.  Text and graphical adventure, combined.

   I bid thee well, and good luck with your quest.

   Digital Ninja
   -------------
   We hope you like playing this game.  We don't do many these days, but we
   really are trying to make the ones that ARE released, worth it.  Our aim
   is to hammer DIGITAL NINJA into as many heads as  possible,  for  future
   domination!

                     W A T C H   T H I S   S P A C E !!

   We have written many more games, spanning many types of genre.  Though
   modesty may remain tight-lipped on such a promotive occasion, I really
   want you to know who we are.

   Over five years ago, we established ourselves as a team dedicated to
   releasing the most awful games you have ever suffered to play.  This
   was a nessesary part of our climb.  Eventually, and recently more often
   the games where of a mercentable quality, and you had the distinct
   pleasure of buying them.  Magazine reviewers had the distinct chore of
   writing about them.  And we had the distinct feeling that we could do
   anything we wanted, which was a mistake.

   Even though quality maybe be high, the games themselves began to take
   on an individualistic tone.  Games that some people would absolutely
   love and the rest would hate them with a passion.

   Listening to the voice of reason, sensability and all the Amiga mags
   on the shelves, we reverted to an earlier state of development.  Not
   releasing anything that was disliked.  Even if it was COMPLETELY
   finished and realy for release, it would get a full analysis and if
   it just didn't play well enough, it went in the bin.  Such a system
   resulted in the absense of many new games, but which in turn produced
   a new batch of high quality, highly playable and I shy when I say,
   highly marketable software.  And this trend will continue, well into
   the second phase of Amiga domination.

   Look forward to your nice letters, praise, critisism, horror, gifts,
   prizes and acclaim.  Until the next one...maybe.


       Address, for game help:                Address, for disk help:

        Digital Ninja                          F1 Software,
        'Rockville'                            31 Wellington Road
        Warrington Road                        Exeter
        Lower Ince                             Devon
        Wigan                                  EX2-9DU
        Lancashire
        WN3 4QG
        UK.

