 
                              ABOUT THE GAME

	RingWar  is  a  classic  arcade game of reflexes.  The graphics are
based  on  the  vector  style of the old arcade games such as Asteroids and
Tempest.   RingWar  should  work  on all Amigas.  You'll need about 220K of
free  chip RAM to run the game.  If you don't have enough memory to run the
game,  or  it  can't open necessary files when you first start, the program
will not run.

	It  is  possible  to  copy  the game to your HardDrive, or RAMdisk.
Simply  copy  all  the  files  in the RingWar directory (RingWar, Game.dat,
Game.sound) to the desired destination.  If you wish to reset the HighScore
list, simply use the CLI to delete the "HighScores" file.  When you run the
game  again it will automatically create another one.  To run the game from
the CLI, CD into the RingWar directory, and type 'RingWar'.

	When you first startup the program, text describing the CharityWare
concept  will be presented.  After this text you'll be prompted as to which
type  of controller you want to use.  I recommend the keyboard controls, as
they  offer  a lot more control than the joystick, especially once you have
become proficient at them.

	The  goal  of  the  game is to penetrate through the three rotating
rings  and  hit  the five pointed star in the ringship at the center of the
rings.   In  the  meantime you will have to avoid randomly appearing mines,
and  the ring ship itself, which shoots back at you once you have punched a
hole through the rings.

                             PLAYING THE GAME

	When  you  first  start  the game, your ship will appear at the far
right border of the screen.  In the center of the screen you will see three
concentric sets of rotating rings, in the center of which will be a another
ship.
	
	A  powerful  force  surrounds the outer ring segment - if your ship
runs  into  it  it will be pushed away.  Shooting a segment in a ring first
weakens  that  segment,  which turns it a brighter shade of blue.  The next
shot to hit that segment destroys it.  Note that you have to leave at least
one  segment  intact  in  each  of the three groups of rings, or the entire
group of ring segments will be regenerated.

	Once  you  have punched a hole into at least one of the segments in
each  of  the rings, it will then be possible to destroy the inner ship and
advance  to the next level.  But be careful!  Once you have made an opening
through the rings it is possible for the center ship to shoot back at you.

	Your  ship  is  equiped  with  a shield.  Every time you use it you
drain  the power source in your ship.  Once your ship has run out of shield
power,  thats it!  That ship has no more shield until you die.  The red bar
at  the  top  of  the screen indicates how much shield is left.  The shield
will protect from exploding mines and the shots from the inner ship.

	As you play, mines will randomly warp into the game, and chase you.
It  is  possible,  though difficult, to shoot a mine before it reaches you.
When  a  mine  gets within a certain radius of your ship, it explodes.  The
further  you  are  away  from  the  mine  when it explodes, the better your
chances  of surviving.  It is safe to fly through the mines, but only while
they are warping in.  Up to three mines can be on the screen at once on the
higher levels of the game.

                                 CONTROLS

		ESC - Quits the game at any time.
		F1  - Pause the game.
		F2  - UnPause the game.

                            Keyboard controls:
		A  	 -	Rotate ship left
		S  	 -	Rotate ship right
		K  	 -	Thrust
		L  	 -	Fire
		SpaceBar - 	Shield 

                            Joystick controls:
		Left	 -	Rotate ship left
		Right	 - 	Rotate ship right
		Up	 - 	Thrust
		Down	 - 	Shield
		Fire	 - 	Fire

Note  that  it is possible to use several key combinations at once, such as
turning, thrusting and shooting.


                                   HINTS

	-It  is safe to bounce off the shield surrounding the outer section
of  rings.   Use  this  fact  to  keep  the momentum of your ship up.  Keep
moving!

	-Destroy the mines by shooting them, or by turning away from them as
they approach you, and thrusting safely away from the blast before it reaches
you.

	-Use  your  shield!   Nothing  can  kill  you  when  it is on.  You
shouldn't die until you have exhuasted the shield supply for a given ship.

	-Extra ships are awarded every 10,000 points.  So hang in there!


	Enjoy the game!

		-Eric Bazan @ ASDG 	December 1991

			
			     MISCELLANY

	-RingWar disables multitasking on your machine while running.

	-You can escape the intro screen by hitting the space bar.

	-If you are playing the game off of a floppy, keep in mind
	 that the game flushes out the HighScore file when you
 	 exit. Keep the floppy in the drive until you quit.
 	 
	-This is CharityWare. if you like the program, please dontate
	 $10 to one of the listed charities. Thanks!

	-The MORE program on this disk is copyrighted by Commodore Business
	 Machines, Inc. and is included under a 1.3 Workbench license.
