
PuzzleBOBS technical specs
--------------------------

  PuzzleBOBS is at the same time a Puzzle Bobble 1,2,3, Puzzle De Don clone
but introduces a lot of new characteristics as the possibility of playing
two players mode (maybe in future three or more player too) simultaneously in
the same level, as the ability of accept a lot of levelsets with dissimilar 
features (as in classic Puzzle Bubble 1 or at time as Puzzle de don) etc.
  Moreover this game is totally configurable: you could choose screen-mode by
a system requester (supported AGA,ECS,OCS and graphic expansions as PicassoIV
or Cybervision or other that are AmigaOS compatible by Picasso96 or CyberGraphX)
up to 24 BIT colours, all the graphical elements of game as fonts, lateral 
columns, rotating pointer with gears, balls (of each size,color,form, and 
number also animated up to 255 frames), backgrounds, then you can choose the
velocity of moving objects, music and fx-sounds, apperances of explosions 
(as frames per seconds, by gfx or CPU precalculated animation), the turn of
trajectory, disposal of objects in level (by four or six tangents) and a lot
of other lowlevel options as the behaviour of artificial brain and priorities 
of game's subtasks.
  Thanks to the polyvalence of LevelSet files subsystem you can choose the
behaviour of the balls in game, for example when balls fall becouse free from
others can go to the top entering again in the level or they can go to down 
exiting forever.
  As in Puzzle Bobble 3 you can have balls that rebound against the top limit
and levels in which balls can attach on lateral limits increasing the 
difficulty of game.
  Moreover the game foresees a lot of special balls as three type of bombs and
others.
  PuzzleBOBS allows to ZOOM the balls if can not fit into the level so you can
use a lot of levels even very big without space problems, or to force a
default zoom to save a lot o video-ram.
  The game works in multitasking and can be played further on a screen so in a
Workbench's window also in a PIP (if your board affords that) it will contain
a config program and a level editor and it will have a set of preconfigured 
ConfigFiles and LevelSets files to be used on lowend or highend Amigas or during
particular works as a workbench session in a multitasking window
(low CPU occupation).
  The game can go in manual pause (p) crypting the level or can go in sleep 
mode automatically when the screen or window became inactives, in the same time
frees the audio channels and if you was using a window remaps the workbench's
palette.
  The hiscore system allows to maintain a lot of information about the score
so you will be able to remember the date, the LevelSet used, the game mode, the
number of players, the difficulty of that past match. 	   

  The approach to the configurability of graphic's look and of LevelSet files
will give to game a great longevity,i think, becouse its open architecture
will allow in future to exploit faster and better hardware and will allow to 
the final users to do/use other configuration sets and levels set.
 
  The game has a built-in subsystem that is able to simulate the blitter's
work (on VGA,AGA,ECS,OCS) putting all graphic data (bitmaps) in Fast_Mem (the
only Chip_Mem used is the screen's mem) and increase a lot the speed of Amiga
without graphic board (need some fastmem).
  The game is now 98% ready (1.27 MBytes of code now, assembled into
about 200 kbytes of executable, 320KBytes if optimized by DevPac), written
in 100% 68020+ optimized assembler, it will support PowerPC by a PowerPC asm
modules (by WarpOS) and have optimized gfx routines for PowerPC-only machines
(both VGA and AGA/ECS/OCS machines).


  The game is based on a particular architecture that uses deeply the AmigaOs
multitasking characteristichs.
  Infact it uses a lot of sub tasks (of which you can set the priority) that
are assigned on all operation of game.
  For example there is a task that controls rotations one that draws bob
animation and others that controls players, levels, controllers, explosions
etc etc.
  These tasks communicate between them with signals and messages and thanks to
this type of approach is very easy to redirect a task on a new piece of
hardware.
  For example the task that controls rotations in future should use a 3D
device chip to increase its speed.


  Is very difficult to say what is the minimum requisite of memory that the
game needs, because it depends on too many factors as max number of objects
in level, number and size of balls etc... etc..., but it is not too
expansive.
  Infact consider that the game in the confuguration at 800*600*24bit, with 12
balls with only one frame needs about 2.5 MB of Fast Mem including buffers that
Intuition does when open windows (the game needs a window to read mouse,
keyboard and joystick inputs).
  It needs a 68020 minimum, and AmigaOSRoms+AmigaOS v3.0.