MIGHT & MAGIC II:
                    
        To earn lots of experience make a backup of your original play disk.
        Now boot and insert the disk that contains your characters.  Save
        them onto your second backup by going to the inn.  Buy three tickets
        (green, yellow, red or black) and try to win in all three arenas.
        Remember to save after each victory.  Once you have a victory in
        each arena, go to the castle where the bishop is held captive.
        Before entering flick the write protect tab to protect your disk.
        Then enter and free the bishop with the correct key.  He will give
        you experience if you have won three fights of the same color.  Exit
        and go to town.  Open write protect tab and save at the inn.  You
        can repeat as often as you like.


                          PLAYERS GUIDE


I only detailed the cleric/wizard's spells that you have to look for, actually

most of these spells are pretty useless.  The only spell I found really useful

was Divine intervention which I used once.



You do not need to find every single hireling (though I found them all A-X).

Only one, Sherman, is crucial in winning the game.  (You must find Sherman to

get the use of the time machine that Lord Peabody has!).  I gave some hints on

where they are though...



Provided some explanations of 'TRUE' and triple crowns...  Also, some insights

on circus games...



I have a pretty detailed runthrough of what is needed to win the game...  Hope y

a have some characters of at least 20th level and some good stats...





---------------

Clerical Spells

---------------



A lot I don't remember but these are the ones that I do!



Nature's Gate - Go to bar in Vulcania and eat red-hot wolf nibble chips. Then

                go Druid's Grove (C3 - 1,9) and you will find a druid eating

                the same thing.  He'll like your breath so much he will give

                you the Nature's Gate spell... (Frankly, I don't find much use

                for this spell)



Walk on Water - Can't remember the exact co-ordinate (it is in C2)



Air Transmutation - 8,8 in the air elemental plane (Area A1)



Air Encasement - 1,14 in the Air Elemental Plane (Area A1)



Frenzy - A group of natives who resides in Native's Cove (Area B4 - 8,1) often

         go into a Frenzy



Earth Transmutation - 8,8 in the earth elemental plane (Area E4)



Water Encasement - 1,1 in the water elemental plane (Area A4)



Water Transmutation - 8,8 in the water elemental plane (Area A4)



Earth Encasement - 14,1 in the earth elemental plane (Area E4)



Fire Encasement - 14,14 in the fire elemental plane (Area E1)



Fire Transmutation - 8,8 in the fire elemental plane (Area E1)



Divine Intervention - Go to the Druid's Cave, at 14,15 is a arch druid who

                      needs a favor from you.  Find Horvath!  Well, Horvath is

                      within the cave (5,3?) find him and kill him.  Horvath is

                      a pretty tough opponet so beware...  If you succeed, go

                      back to the druid and he will grant you this spell.



Holy Word - In the Lost Soul's Wood (Area C1 - 9,7?)





-----------------

Sorceror's Spells

-----------------



Eagle's Eyes - Do the quest in Middlegate, this spell is part of the reward.



Lloyd's Beacon - In Corak's Crypt (7,11)



Wizard's Eye - In Sandsobar (Geez, the door says Wizard's Eye!)  Pay the man!



Fingers of Death - Supposedly at C1(1,8) but never found it.



Dancing Sword - Kill the Mist Warrior at Mist Haven (A1 - 15,11) and you shalt

                learn the spell.



Starburst - It is suppose to be in the middle of the Dead Zone, but I have yet

            to find it.  You die when you enter the Dead Zone...



Enchant Item - Find the Gemmaker in the Gemmaker's Cave (D1 - 10,12? a bit

               north of Vulcania!)  The Gemmaker is at 3,3 in the dungeon.

               Warning: His fee is TIME! (You character gets AGED.)



Anyways, a list of all spells to be found is at the Hall of spells in Castle

Xabran.





---------

Hirelings

---------



Do you really care?  Nah...  Some clues anyhow...



- Dead Eye and Red Duke are in Bozorc's (BOSS ORC) control in D1 at 14,1

- Sir Kill and Jed I are in Sarakin's Mines, unfortunately, ya gotta kill

  Sarakin first (and his undead friends!)

- Might Nakazama and Lord Peabody's servant Sherman were last seen having

  some problems with amazons near Native's Cove at 10,1

- A couple of guys are in prison in Atlantium, break em out....

- A couple of kids are in kept in prison by kobolds in kobold's HQ in the

  dungeons beneath Middlegate

- Buy fried troll's liver at bar in Vulcania...  I think there are a couple

  of hirelings who likes your taste... But ya gotta demonstrate your skills

  to them first... (So what is killing a dozen cripples and misers...)

- A couple of hirelings are almost dinner for the snowbeast in Tundara...

  Kill the snowbeast (in the outer walls of the city), skip the emerald ring

  or you will be accused of murder, and save the 2 hirelings...

- A lichlord guards a high level wizard in Area D3.

- A couple of guys are currently being held in prison in Castle Hillstone.



Anyways, with the exception of Sherman, most of the hirelings are not necessary 

to win the game.  They are nice to have around.  The most a hireling can cost is

 50000 gold a day.  There is a list of all the hirelings and their locations in 

the hall of hirelings in Castle Xabran.







------------------

Raising Statistics

------------------



On days 140-170 at B2 - 14,4 (the circus grounds), there is a circus.  Now

try a few events there...  You will probably lose, but you do a some

consolation prizes...   A cupie doll!   Now go (fly is quicker) to D3 - 4,13?

(somewhere there!) and meet this old raving hermit...  He will take the doll

and direct you to the pool in the Inner Limits (E2 - 10,11?).  Bath in this

pool (usually it is acid, but now!) and you will feel like a WINNER!  Go back

to the circus grounds and choose a category you want to improve on.  For

example, if you want improved strength, try to ring the bell...  Horseshoes for

improved accuracy...  Kissing booth for better personality...  Shell game for

better intelligence... sack race for better speed...  head dunk for better

endurance...  now what was for luck and stamina? (You get the idea...).  +10

to the category...







-----------------

Individual Quests

-----------------



For one to be true, each class must fulfil his quest... Each class must be

alone or be in the company of thieves.  When the quest is done, return to Mt.

Farview in area D2 - 7,0 to claim true status (+) and 5 million experience.



Fighters - Must kill the Dread Knight at B3 - 5,14.



Paladins - Must kill the Frost Dragon in the dungeon among the Forbidden Forest

           in Area B3.



Archers - Must kill Baron Wilfrey at B2 - 11,2



Ninjas - Must assassinate Dawn in Dawn's Mist Bog in D4 - 8,9



Clerics - Must defeat a haunt of ghosts at C1 - 10,15 in the Lost Soul's Woods

          and collect Corak's Soul.  Then go to Corak's Crypt and reunite the

          soul with his body.  One must have an Admit 8 Pass to enter the crypt

          though, and to obtain one, you have to get it from a zombie in the

          dungeon beneath Sandsobar.



Wizards - Go to either castle on the Isle of the Ancients.  If you go to the

          Dark (Evil) one first, follow these sets of doors (the doors are

          marked), 1-3-1-(3 or 7)-9-11-A-C-G-I  the combination to free the

          evil wizard is Right 46 (type 46 when you enter the right alcove)

          and Left 23 (type 23 when you enter the left alcove!)



          The Good (Light) castle and path, follow this path

          2-2-4-6-6-12-A-D-F-I, the combination to free the good wizard is

          Right 32 and Left 64.



Barbarian - Must kill Brutal Bruno, the Barbarian chieftain at C4 - 0,15.



Thieves - Accompany any class on a quest.





-------------

TRIPLE CROWNS

-------------



Buy a key of the appropriate colour.  Buy several arena tickets and then fight 

in the 3 different arenas (Middlegate's ARENA, Sandsobar's Monster Bowl, and

Atlantium's Colliseum).  Once you have won all 3 fights, you are a triple crown

winner of that colour.  Go to the bishop of the appropriate colour to  claim

the experience earned. There are 4 colours and 4 types of tickets.



        Green Key -   Key Shoppe in Middlegate

        Green Ticket - Supplies Store in Middlegate

        Green Bishop - Castle Woodhaven



        Yellow Key - Key Shoppe in Sandsobar

        Yellow Ticket - Supplies Store in Sandsobar

        Yellow Bishop - Castle Hillstone



        Red Key - Key Shoppe in Vulcania

        Red Ticket - Supplies Store in Vulcania

        Red Bishop - Castle Pinehurst



        Black Key - Key Shoppe in Atlantium

        Black Ticket - Supplies Store in Atlantium

        Black Bishop - Luxus Castle



You have to be BOTH TRUE and a TRIPLE CROWN winner (must be black?) to qualify

for the quest for Princess Lamanda (goal of the game).





---------------

TO WIN THE GAME

---------------



First you will need the Element Orb.  To get the Element Orb, you must first

grab these items, A-1 Tolidor (0,6 in Luxus Palace), J-26 Fluxer (7,6 Castle

Pinehurst), N-29 Capitor (3,13 Castle Hillstone), M-27 Radicon (2,11 Castle

Woodhaven).  Now this part I am not too sure of...  Go to Dawn's Mist Bog

Cavern at 10,15 and you will find the Element Orb.  You will find that you canno

t leave the dungeon with the Orb in hand.  There should be a teleporter 

in the dunegoen (very near the entrance), use that instead and you should end

up in Murray's Cave in Murray's Resort Isle.  Another way I devised was to

transfer the Orb to the hireling and then 'D'ismissing my hireling.  Now I can

leave the cave with no problem and I can find the hireling with the Orb same and

 sound back at the original inn... (Sorta cheated on it...)



Ok, so you've got the Element Orb, now you will need the 4 elemental talons.

Travel back in time using Lord Peabody's time machine to the 9th Century (Era

8), and go to Castle Xabran at C2 - 14,8.



In Castle Xabran, get the following items... Air Disc (15,15); Earth Disc

(6,2); Fire Disc (6,14); Water Disc (15,0)



Now, either using the time machine in Castle Pinehurst, or thru the vortex

holes at the corners of each elemental planes, travel back to the year 100, 200

300, 400 to find the talons.  The time of air hides the talon at 11,7.  In the P

lane of Water, 10,10 will reveal the water talon.  In the plane of earth, the

talon is enshrined at 8,8.  In the plane of fire, the talon rest at 4,4. Each

shrine which holds the talon requires the appropriate disc to open.



Now you should have all 4 talons and the orb.  Go back to the 9th Century again

and find King Kalohn at C4 - 14,5 and see him fighting the Mega Dragon. When he

sees you with the talons and Orb, you will haved changed history because

history had said the battle would have been lost.  Now that the dragon has been

vanquished, King Kalohn will live after all.... (confused?)



You return to the 10th Century and you go back to Luxus Palace.  Instead of Prin

cess Lamanda, you now see King Kalohn!  He tells you of the final quest.

To go to Square Lake and try to stop the villain that is going to doom Cron.



You enter this fantastic maze (that you won't be amaze with).  At the end of

this simple maze, you meet him.  SHELTEM and his elemental friends...  You

should be able to defeat him, but alas, can you beat his recorded message?  He

has left a pre-recorded message and REAL-TIME cryptogram puzzle.  If time

expires, the world crashes into the Sun.  Now, the encription algorithm changes

EVERY time so I can't help you with that.  But the message is the same every

time.



Here is the message,



We, the people of Terra, in order to form a more perfect union, establish

justice , insure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense...



The answer of this is given already, Preamble.  Now, find the corresponding

encryption and translate the word Preamble to its encrypted code and then you

are done!   Cron is saved from crashing into the Sun.


