FEDERATION OF FREE TRADERS:

        Advancement in rank has nothing to do with the amount of credits to
        your name.  It is releated to the number of missions you complete
        and ships destroyed. The only way to earn a lot of credits is to
        haggle on the trade-net.  By staying in the space station on the
        net, and trading in guns, food and gold, you will quickly build a
        fortune.  Travelling to space stations requires you to jump until
        you cannot get any further.  Guide to completing the missions:

            MISSION 01: Take message: Just go there! Use e pod.
    
            MISSION 02: Destroy aliens, but not unknowns: Kill 4+.
                        Use E pod.

            MISSION 03: Destroy sat!

            MISSION 04: Escort convoy. Use E pod.

            MISSION 05: Investigate dissepearances. Kill 4+. USE E pod.

            MISSION 06: Search for survivors.

            MISSION 07: Escort vip. Land on planet then go to
                        destination.

            MISSION 08: Go and report.

            MISSION 09: Destroy alien.

            MISSION 10: Rescue civilians. Land on planet.


           HOW TO BUY ANYTHING ON THE BLACK MARKET FOR 1 CREDIT.
          -------------------------------------------------------

Load the game.
Enter the net.
Type help, and get yourself an id number.
Logoff the net.
Press the backspace at the bay doors.
Blast off into space, and find a spaceship for you to trade with and get his id
number.
Enter the net, logon, and press T and return.
You should be now in communication mode with the alien.
Say hello, have a chat, keep pressing a key or whatever until he offers you
some goods, such as Hypermint for example.
At the prompt, straight after he has offered you something to buy,
enter '1' (without quotes) and press return.
He will say something like no chance, or sign off.
logoff.

Now everything you BUY or SELL, you will BUY or SELL it for 1 credit, even if
you put 100 credits as an offer, you will still BUY or SELL it for 1 credit.
This only applies to BLACK MARKET trading, it will not work at a planet or
space station.

Try it.
Press T and return to talk to the alien again.
Say hello, keep pressing a key until he offers YOU something.
eg,

         Eh Guvnor, I have some business, do
         you want to buy some excellent
         Bath towels ??
         I couldn't let them go for less than
         1100 credits, what do you say ?

   Now a prompt comes up again as normal.

        >Y

   Enter 'Y' as above and press return.
   He will now say something like 'You have been done mate' or 'Thanks, bye'

Look at your inventory, and at the end you will see 'TOWELS', now check your
credits, and you will see that you have 149 credits left.





             HOW TO SELL ANY OF YOUR GOODS FOR LOADS OF MONEY
            --------------------------------------------------

Now here is the clincher, how to get rich quick using the above method.
Press T and return to talk to the alien again.
Now keep at him until he offers you something.

   eg,
         Listen, I'm a businessmen and
         I have got some Exquatle Hypermint
         that I couldn't let got for less
         than 2000 credits ?
         Make me an offer.

Enter a large number, larger than the offer above, say '200000' and press
return.
He will say, you have insufficient funds, and logoff.

Now when you BUY or SELL anything, you will be buying/selling it for '200000'.
It is like a counter, that the programmers have forgot to reset so that you can
make it equal anything, is it a bug or what ?

Now, press T and return, to talk to the alien, make certain that you have got
something to sell.

Keep pestering him, until he says something like, 'Have you got anything to
trade'.
Tell him what you have got, say 'BATH TOWELS' for example.
Now he says something like, 'name your price'
Enter 10 and press return.
It doesn't matter what you enter, as it is set at 200000 anyway.
Now logoff and check your credits, you should have something like 200149
credits, wow, go splash out on all that new weapons and stuff.

BUT DON'T FORGET, IF YOU WANT TO BUY ANYTHING OFF OF HIM, YOU HAVE TO GO
THROUGH THE TOP ROUTINE, TO GET THE COUNTER BACK TO 1 CREDIT.

The top routine, is only to be used in BUYING, as it is no good trying to buy
something, when it is set at 200000 eh ??
Likewise, the bottom routine is only used for SELLING, as you are a bit stupid
if you try to sell your wares for 1 credit !!
I hope you have understood the above method, if you haven't, you want shooting!
Anyway, it makes FOFT easier to explore anyway.
