
   Dear Adventurer (Amiga version of Alternate Reality)

   I managed to send you this letter with the magical help of Zark, our
   Dark Archwizard. Tell me if you find the way back to Earth...

   Buy a plate mail and a long sword. Only ghosts and spectres and similar
   ethereal, and arch-mages and wizards can beat you. I don't know about
   dragons, as I've seen only that baby dragon, but that was before I had
   any good armour nor weapons. I managed to trick it that time.

   When I was at 4th level and I had plate + longsword I killed both a
   Nightstalker and a Wizard (of Light Wizard's, of course...:-).
   Still searching for dragons...

   Find a magic weapon and crystal plate parts and you will be invincible(?)
  (I have searched for months and haven't found a magic weapon. Another
   people trapped in this Reality have found them, so it is possible.)

   Spells are quite useless, at least those I got from Dark Wizard's Guild.
   They do not help against that Arch-Mage nor ethereal beings. And those
   are the only ones I haven't managed to slay.

   Joining guilds is certainly possible! I have joined Chaos Wizards and
   Dark Wizards with no problem. (I got very high abilities though :-)
   Wizard guilds teach you spells, but you must visit them in 7 to 13
   consecutive days to learn each spell (Star Wizards would be fun, as
   the Stellar Maze is always there). Each wizard guild has four spells to
   teach. Remember that you may not join two guilds (I restored an older
   save file to change to Dark Wizard's guild...)

   Dark Wizards taught Fear, Paralysis, Inflict Serious Wounds and
   Blindness spells. I don't know how the thieve's, physicians, order or
   assassin guilds teach nor what they teach. Or are they even available.
   I am quite certain however that one cannot join two guilds with the same
   character. You must have either a high or low moral standards to join
   certain guilds. You can lower the moral standards by using trick and
   charm. Increasing the moral standards score is probably done by _not_
   using those, killing evil opponents only and with a honest fighting.)

   The Floating Gate is the way out. Pass it and you've won the game.
   But I think one has to complete all six games, and only two exist...

			Carak Delzuld
			Level 8 Dark Wizard
			Trapped in the Alternate Reality
			City of Xebec's Demise
			Midnight Inn

   P.S. Read the words of the songs...great...
        Too bad they are not in step with the music.
        You got to write 'em down if you want to sing :-)...
