CHAOSCASTLE - Specific notes about the Amiga version
====================================================


INSTALLATION:

 No installation procedure is required. The game can be placed anywhere
on a floopy- or harddisk if all files from the drawer "CCastle" are kept
together.

 You can change the game's settings from the game itself using the
corresponding menus. Amiga-specific settings can be modified with the
'tooltypes' (see below)

To registered users:
 The file ChaosCastle.key should be placed in 'S:' or in 'L:', or in either
'KEYS:' or 'KEYFILES:' if one of these assigns exists.


FAQ

Q: The game seems to use a multisync mode which is not supported by my
   monitor (I get only flashy lines on the screen when starting the
   program).
A: Look what files are in sys:devs/monitors. You should move every modes
   which are not supported by your monitor into sys:storage/monitors to
   prevent the game (as well as other programs) to use them.
   The program, when it starts, chooses the best screen mode available.
   As it uses a 320x240 display, it will choose a multisync mode
   (which has exactly this resolution) rather than PAL if one
   is present in sys:devs/monitors.

   An other solution is to add the tooltype 'AskScreenMode=Yes' (see below).
   Then the program will let you choose the screenmode before starting.

   Note: quit the program with [Right Amiga]-[Q].

Q: Why is the game so slow on CyberGfx ?
A: The game makes a big use of offscreen-bitmaps. These are not cached in
   the graphic-card's memory with older version of CyberGfx.
   Look for the latest version of CyberGfx, or install Picasso96.

Q: The program starts ok, but it immediatly goes on with the first level
   without I did anything.
A: If you don't have a joystick pluged, try adding the tooltype
   'JoyStick=No' (see below): on some Amiga-models, joystick buttons are
   detected as pressed when there is no joystick pluged.
   The same problem may happen if you have the lowlevel.library, but
   no CD32-like joypad.

Q: The game does not respond to the joystick.
A: Restart the program and make sure you are not holding a button down
   during the startup. If the program detects a button pressed at startup
   it will not use joystick control; see above why. Also check for the
   tooltype 'Joystick'; it should not be set to 'No'.

Q: The menu 'Settings/Misc...' does not work.
A: It only works on kickstart 3.1 and later, but it only opens the tooltypes.
   With older kickstart, just open the tooltypes with the 'Icon/Information'
   menu from the Workbench.

Q: The program crashes !
A: Some tooltypes may make the program to malfunction on some configurations.
   Try removing every tooltypes and restart the game. If this doesn't solve
   the problem, contact the author and give details about your config,
   the kind of crash, the condition under which it happens, etc.
   If I have enough time and informations, I'll try to solve the problem.
   I can be contacted by e-mail at: Nicky@GameBox.net
   But there is no waranty you'll get an answer.


TOOLTYPES

 The following tooltypes are recognized by the program:
(to add, remove or modify a tooltype, click on the program's icon and select
the 'Information' menu from the Workbench)
Warning: Some tooltypes requier advanced knowledge of the Amiga and can make
the game to malfunction. If you aren't sure you understand the meaning of
a tooltype, rather don't specify it: the program will then use the default
value which is the safest.
 Tooltypes have the form <tooltype>=<value>, where <value> is usually
Yes (actived) or No (unactived).
 Most usefull tooltypes are explained first:

o "Font": Allow you to choose the font used for the texts; the value must
  be a font name found in the FONTS: drawer. The program uses the sizes
  8, 16 and 24 or multiple of them.
  If you change the language, it is sometimes required to use a font
  smaller than topaz, such as XEN, or else some text will be displayed
  partially out of the screen.
  Default: topaz.font (system font, located in the ROM)
o "FontSize": Allow you to choose the font size for the menus and dialogs.
  If the size is too big, topaz 8 will be used instead.
  Default: 8
o "Ahi": Enable or disable the retargetable audio system Ahi. Set the
  tooltype to 'Yes' or 'No'; 'Yes' to make the program use Ahi for the
  sounds, 'No' to make it use the standard Amiga audio device.
  Default: Ahi is used if it is installed and a 68030 processor or better is
  present, audio.device is used else.
o "AskAudioMode": Allow you to choose the Ahi audio mode each time the
  program is started. Only works if Ahi is enabled.
  Default: No, the program use the default audio mode that has been set with
  Ahi preferences.
o "AskScreenMode": Allow you to choose the screen mode each time the program
  is started. Only modes which are close enough to the game's size are
  displayed (the game's size can be changed from the program itself).
  If the screen mode is smaller than the game's size, it will be opened
  in overscan mode.
  Default: No, the program choose the best mode available for the current
  game's size.
o "CloseWorkbench": Try to close the Workbench screen before starting the
  game to save chip memory.
  Required in color mode with sounds if you have only 512k chip memory.
  Default: No
o "AudioFilter": Activate or unactivate the audio filter. If the tooltype is
  specified without the value "Yes" or "No", the filter is actived under
  water and unactived otherwise.
o "Headphones": Use an experimental trick which only works with headphones
  to generate stereo sounds.
  Default: No
   Note: Only work with kickstart V36 or greater and with Ahi disabled.
o "Prologic": Encode sounds in prologic. This allow 360° location of sounds
  on a four-speakers system that support prologic.
  Default: No
   Note: Does not work with Ahi (Surprising for me too).
o "SoundBoost": Allow you to specify the sound volume. 4 is full volume;
  with greater values, loudest sounds are forced to the maximum volume.
o "Joystick": Specify whether a joystick should be used or not. On some
  Amigas, some buttons are detected as pressed when no joystick is pluged;
  in this case it is necessary to specify "Joystick=No" to prevent the
  program from interpreting these ghost values.
  Default: Yes
o "bSmartRefresh": Open the main window in SmartRefresh mode instead of
  SimpleRefresh. Speed up refresh but use more memory.
  Default: No
o "dSmartRefresh": Same as "bSmartRefresh" for the dialog boxes.
  Default: No
o "TaskPriority": Change the task's priority.
  Default: The priority is not modified
o "MaskPlane": When the 'Colors x2'-mode is used (two layers), tell the
  program to limit drawings to one layer at a time using plane masking.
  This will improve the speed on a planar display (OCS, AGA) but may slow
  down a lot on a chunky display (gfx card).
  Default: Yes on a planar display, No else.
o "CustomMask": It has a different meaning whether the screen mode is native
  (OCS, ECS or AGA) or a graphic card one:
  Native mode: Yes -> use instead of BltBitMaskRastPort a custom function
  which is 2 or 3 times faster but uses the blitter directly. The function
  from graphics.library is always used with a graphic card.
  Graphic card: Yes -> try to put masks (single-plane bitmaps) and the TmpRas
  in the graphic card's memory; save some chip memory but may cause problems
  with some graphic cards.
  Default: Native mode: Yes; Graphic card: No
o "DoubleBuffer": Force or prevent usage of graphic hardware double-buffering.
  Default: Yes if the screen mode allow it. Sopftware double buffering is
  used instead. On some graphic cards that emulates hardware double-buffering
  in software, setting this tooltype to "No" may improve memory usage and
  speed.


AUTOBOOT INSTALL

 A script named 'InstallAutoboot' can be found in the 'CCastle' drawer.
This script will allow you to install the game on a floppy-disk and to
start the game directly by booting this floppy.
 The following steps are necessary:

(1)
 Boot from a standard Workbench disk or from a fully installed hard disk. If
you are a registered user of ChaosCastle, boot from the disk containing the
keyfile.
 Format a floppy-disk and name it 'CCastle'.

(2) Workbench 1.2 - 1.3 users:
 Open a Cli / Shell. Enlarge the window to cover the entire screen.
 Type 'cd <drawer>', where <drawer> is the directory containing the file
'InstallAutoboot'.
 Type 'execute InstallAutoboot', and go to step (4)

(3) Workbench 2.0 or greater:
 Double-click on the 'InstallAutoboot' icon, and go to step (4)

(4)
 The script will display the above explanations and ask you if you want to
continue. Type 'y' and <return> to start the installation, or 'n' and
<return> to abort it.
 Insert the requested floppy-disks whenever they are asked for.
 At the end of the install, the script will ask you to put the 'CCastle' disk
(the one you have formatted in step (1)) in the drive DF0: (internal drive)
to install the bootblock. It is important to do it because the script will
install the bootblock of the disk in drive DF0 without checking if the
correct disk has been inserted (this is a limitation of the 'install'
command, sorry). When you have inserted 'CCastle' in DF0, type 'y' and
<return>. Type 'n' and <return> to skip this part, but then you'll have to
install the bootblock manually.
 Press <return> to close the window when the script has finished.


IMPLEMENTATION NOTES

The Amiga version of ChaosCastle has been edited, tested, compiled and
linked with the Modula-2 development system M2Amiga 4.3. Additionally, the
program has been tested successfully with Mungwall, Cyberguard, Enforcer
and IOTorture.
Amigas tested are:
A500, 1.3 & 2.1 OCS, 68000, 2.5MB ram (1MB chip);
A2000, 3.1 OCS, 68060, 32MB ram (512k chip);
A1200, 3.1 AGA, 68030, 8MB ram (2MB chip);
A4000, 3.0 AGA + picasso 4, 68040, 80MB ram (2MB chip).

ChaosCastle has been programmed in such a way it can easily be ported to
other platforms such as MacOS, TOS, Linux, etc. This also meen that some
Amiga very-specific stuff are usually not used (eg. Arexx) and that it
will not always follow the 'Amiga User Interface Style Guide'. I
apologize for this.

Note: the program may hit the hardware only if:
o The tooltype "CustomMask" is not set to "No".
o The tooltype "AudioFilter" is specified.
Otherwise it fully uses OS-calls.


KNOWN BUGS

o The program uses different backgrounds in one-layer and two-layer
  ('Colors x2') mode. If you switch from one to another from inside
  a level, the backgrounds are not updated.
o If there is few memory available, it may happen that a big-sized font is
  removed from the memory just before a refresh and texts may then appear in
  the wrong size. This problem also occurs if you specify a nonexistant
  font in the tooltypes.
o With kickstart 1.3 or older, alphanumeric keys doesn't respond well if
  the program is heavy loaded. You should use the function keys as weapon's
  keys instead.
o I should really try to write smaller documentation files. The today's
  trend being not to read documentations exceeding one page...
  No, really, are you still reading ? It's time to try the game now !
  Mother Alien is waiting you !
