                                    
                                    Drip

                                     by

                                 Art Skiles
                               908 Elm Street
                           Huntington, IN 46750 USA


                        Copyright (c) 1989, Art Skiles


       This program is released into the public domain.  It is intended
       for non-commercial use only, and no fee will be charged for its
       distribution besides a minimal charge to cover disk costs.  This
       manual should accompany the program at all times.  Also entire
       ownership of this program and manual are retained by the author,
       Art Skiles.

 NOTE: This game is written to run on a 68000 microprocessor based Amiga.
       If you are using a multi-processor system, such as an Amiga 2500,
       MAKE SURE you are in 68000 mode before loading this game.



DRIP: THE STORY

  Like...can you believe it!? 

  It was the annual Bubble Bursters Bash in the basement and all the big 
drips were there. When like right in the middle the party juice got 
sucked up through the pipes! Totally tubular exit! Someone or some thing
had crashed our party. It was like this big flying crystal ball that spit 
bolts of lightning. Everyone dripped for cover except this one drip that
was too cool to be... like... afraid. Like as fast as this ball came it left
crashing up through floors all the way to the 16th floor. And this one cool
drip pulls a detective gig and goes after it! Hope it's got insurance.

  It's up to you, Drip, to rust your way up 15 floors and get the juices
flowing again. 


DRIP: THE GAME

  Drip is an arcade style game with 15 floors (levels). You must move along
the pipes of each floor and rust them to advance to the next level. Every
3 floors completed will entitle you to a bonus round where extra drips can
be won. An extra drip will also be awarded for every 10,000 points. Bonus 
rounds at the ends of floors 3 and 9 contain... ah... ah warp zones. 
Something about the combination of hits. Collect as many drips as you can.
You'll go thru them like water.

  Avoid running or dripping into the acid, plasma and icecubes shooting out
of pipes. Also avoid electric bubbles and coils, lasers and the crystal 
balls followers chasing you. Every now and then clouds float by and clean
the pipes. Stop them by dripping into them.

  You can get a little help from party balloons and bubbles that float by. 
A red heart balloon will cause chasers to rust pipes. A yellow star balloon 
will allow you to chase them. A flashing drip balloon makes you almost 
invincible. Bubbles are useful for riding around in while still being able
to rust pipes. They also protect you from acid, plasma, icecubes and 
electric coils. You may exit a bubble by pressing the firebutton.

  Floor 16 is where no drip has gone before. You must do what you do best 
and then shut down the pumps atop the pipes by shorting out their flashing 
switches. This may make the head honcho bent out of shape so be prepared. 
Look for its weak spot and you'll go down in 'Drip' history with a golden
drip displayed next to your score (If you make the top ten).


DRIP: TO PLAY

  Drip requires 512k of memory, including almost 300k of CONTINUOUS CHIP 
MEMORY, and may be loaded from CLI or Workbench. From the CLI, type 
"DripGame" and press RETURN (include the full pathname). From Workbench, 
double click on its icon. Plug a joystick into port 2. Use the firebutton 
to 'drip'. Pressing 'e' will exit the game. Pressing 'p' will pause. 
Pressing 'i' will display a short information screen.  Press '1' or '2' 
to play either a one or two player game. High scores will be saved to disk 
if it is enabled. If no disk is present or the disk is write protected this 
operation is bypassed without warning.

NOTE: As mentioned above Drip requires almost 300k of CONTINUOUS CHIP
MEMORY. If Drip fails to load this may be the reason. Simply reboot and try 
again.


DRIP: THE PROGRAM

  Drip was written on an Amiga 500 with 1.5 meg and Kickstart 1.3 in ROM
using Lattice C 5.0.4. It was fairly well play tested but if you find any
bugs or have any comments please let me know.



DRIP: CREDITS

  Special thanks to my wife, Joanne, for putting up with this computer nut 
and to Rick Henly, the ultimate beta tester.

 
DRIP: DONATION

  If you play this game please make a $5.00 donation to your favorite 
charity (i.e. American Cancer Society, American Red Cross, etc.). Thank you.


AGS - December 7, 1989
