Your Super Safe Bathroom

	Your Super Safe Bathroom has been designed by your glorious 
leaders Mario Cumio and Molly Yard.

	It features a super safe, drown proof, slip proof ultrasonic 
shower by ACME. This shower cleans and dries you without the use 
of dangerous, politically incorrect soap or excessive water 
usage. It turns on automatically when you enter. Your clothes are 
automatically cleaned when in one so you never have to undress 
and be exposed to your awful nudity.

	The super safe commode (toilette) is a Honda reconditioned 
model T, which features an auto seat warmer, odor exhaust fan, 
auto flush water saving unit, and a special device that cleans 
and dries your behind for you without touching anything. (This 
thing actually exists in Japan today). You never have to use 
environmentally damaging and irritating toilet paper. You are 
spared that awful feeling of accidentally getting your body waste 
on your fingers. You never have to worry about looking at the 
disgusting stuff either.

	The Super Safe Bathroom for a womyn contains the Urinette by 
Sheinal. This is designed so that a womyn can quickly urinate 
while standing. (This thing actually exists.) There are no 
urinals for the evil male's Super Safe Bathroom. Your Glorious 
Leader, Hillery, has decided that those things stink. Besides, 
Males can see what it is like when they leave the seat up all of 
the time as their toilet doesn't come with one. Males are 
required to hover even for urinating.

	Because of the inequalities caused in the past by the evil 
males, the femyle bathroom comes equipt with two toilets.

	The Super Safe Bathroom is painted and carpeted in the usual 
materials. The usual Tannoy, security camera, Super Safe TV and 
computer terminal are present. There are no dangerous sinks, 
mirrors, or electrical outlets in the Super Safe Bathroom.

	A picture of Your Glorious Hero Mario, (for the evil male's 
bathroom), or Hillery, (for the liberated womyn's bathroom) is 
displayed for your enjoyment.

	You are closely monitored while in your Super Safe Bathroom 
so that the Glorious Leaders of the Panic Society can rest 
assured that you are behaving yourself morally.

