Panic Society Help File

	So, you need help? Well, here is what you need to do.

	Use the mouse to gather information where available. Click 
on the object of interest. You will either be presented with 
information or pick up that object. Clicking on the text will 
send you to that location.

	In the text window, you may ask questions by typing them in 
and pressing the (return) key. Click the mouse in the text window 
to activate it.

	Most commands are entered as two words such as "get 
blanket", "look door" or "TV on". Some commands such as 
"Inventory", use one word. A few may recognise complete sentences 
such as "get out of the chair" You can use "n", "s". "e", "w", or 
"go east" for moving in a direction, or click on the direction 
arrows with the mouse.

	Don't worry if you mix upper and lower case. Your command 
will still function. If a command doesn't give a response, try 
something else.

	The object of level 1 is escape. You will need to get the 
door open in order to get into the hallway.

	Look for clues in the responses. To use the Politically 
Correct computer database, click the mouse pointer on the 
computer keyboard" to bring up the menu, then type in the name of 
the file to browse through. Look for hints in the files 
themselves.

	The note and password file will appear when you access the 
computer databank after about 100 moves. Only Robocop can open 
the door. You then have two moves to disable it or you will wake 
up in another room at random.

	Once in the hallway, you are free to explore the other rooms 
to find useful items for the rest of the game.

	Once you have everything, find the door to get outside.

	You only need a few things to escape, but, lack of certain 
equiptment could stop you from completing your mission.

	Warning! You are tagged as everyone is in Panic Society, 
with a trackable ID chip. Should you escape, Robocontrol will 
home in on this chip. It cannot be removed. But, you might be 
able to scramble the homing signal with chain mail armor if you 
can find some.

	Good luck. You are going to need it.

