WARNING!!! If you are offended by politically incorrect references to, 
race, religion, gender, or you are a liberal, then, QUIT NOW!!! Don't blame 
me if you are offended, You have been warned! If you can't accept 
responsibility for your being offended QUIT NOW!!! If you believe that it 
is everyone elses fault, QUIT NOW!!!



	The year 2025



	Liberal policies, because they went unchallenged, during the Clinton 
administration of 1994, resulted in the formation of the Panic Society.

	The Constitution was long ago eliminated in order to give rights to 
plants and animals.

	As liberal policies from the Al Gore administration of 2000 dragged 
everyone else down to the lifestyle of poverty, VHEMT, a radical splinter 
group of Earth First, declared war on the human species, by releasing a 
genetically engineered hantavirus that wiped out 99% of the undesirable 
evil human population around the world.

	Hillery Clinton then became supreme ruler of the world as she and her 
liberal friends seized control of the survivors.

	Presently, phase one of Panic Society is nearly complete. This phase 
resulted in the seizing of all property in America, the complete 
dismantling of capitalism in America, the total elimination of all 
technology in America, the turning of America into a World park where only 
Native Americans and a privileged few are allowed to live, and moving the 
rest of you evil people into super safe housing of the country of your 
ethnic origin.

	Your task, to learn all you can about the Panic Society, escape from 
your temporary prison, sabotage the master computer, and warn the survivors 
about this evil plan for extinction of the human race for the sake of the 
Environment.

	Unknown to Hillery and her friends, someone on the inside started 
tampering with their equipment. Use this to your advantage. But, be 
careful. Should she finds out, you will be trapped forever in a state of 
mind control until the human race becomes extinct in about 100 years.

	You start the game in your super safe room in housing unit 55865619. 

	Explore your domain. look for clues, get information from the 
computer, gather up useful objects for later use when you can finally 
escape.

	Take everything. Some items will be needed in later levels.

	Warning, Big brother is everywhere. Your Glorious Leaders have decided 
to micromanage your life at all levels. They will use robocops to ensure 
your cooperation. Fail to cooperate and you could lose the game.

	In addition, you have been tagged with an injectable implant that 
cannot be removed. This happened when the Hillery Health Care Plan became 
law. This implant can be tracked by remote scanners and robocop. You will 
have to find some way to jam it.

	For more information, you can access the text window by clicking the 
mouse pointer at the bottom of the living room screen, type in the word 
"help" followed by the (return) key. You may also issue commands anytime 
that you activate a text window.



	Characters that you may role play in this game;



1.	Evil White European Male; A horrible, vile creature. A destroyer of 
the environment, exploiter of the less fortune, molester of children, cruel 
to animals, money grubbing, overweight, woman beating, raping, drinking, 
sexist, testosterone infested, racist pig.

	Expect to have your miserable life in this game micromanaged for you 
by Big Brother.

2.	Disadvantage African American Male; You are a person that has been so 
exploited and discriminated against that the game will not micromanage your 
life. Because you are a male, You are still considered to be an evil, 
raping, drug abusing, sexist pig in this game.

3.	Poverty Stricken Latin American. You are a job stealing, Welfare 
hogging, language barrier, school system overloading burden on society. 
Other then that, Your role is similar to the Evil White European Male.

4.	Evil Job Stealing Asian American. Your job stealing has flooded 
America with cheap imports as you have taken all of the high paying jobs in 
America. Your role is similar to the Evil White European Male.

5.	Holey Terror of a Teen Boy; You are a disgusting, drug using, 
molesting, murdering, gang forming, out of control, hormone overloaded, 
teen boy. Yet, according to liberals, it is not your fault that you behave 
in this manner. Its all your parents fault. play the game similar to the 
Evil White European Male.

6.	Teen Girl Terror; You are an emotionally out of control, drug using, 
nymphomaniac, baby killing, binging, purging, molested terror of a spoiled 
rotten brat of a teen girl. And, it is all your parent's fault. Play the 
game similar to the womyn's role in this game.

7.	Exploited European Womyn. You no longer have to endure being beaten 
and a sex object for evil White European Males. In this game, you have been 
given more then equality. You now have two toilets and a shenal in your 
bathroom and the seat is always down

8.	Harassed African American Female. In addition to being exploited, 
discriminated against and being forced to endure all kinds of unwanted 
sexual advances, you are accused of being fat, having too many babies, a 
welfare cheat, and a bad temper. Play the game similar to that of the 
exploited European womyn.

9.	Greedy Old Goat; As a Senior Citizen, you are nothing more then a 
burden on society. You have caused an overload on health care, taken too 
much money from Social Security, and wasted everyones time in general. Play 
the game as that of the evil male.

10. Greedy Old Nag; As a Senior Citizen, you are the same burden as the 
Greedy Old Goat, except, there are more of you. In addition, you are easily 
conned out of all of your money to become an even greater burden on 
society. Play the game as that of a exploited womyn.

11. Conservative Ditto Head; Just think of all the awful things that 
Liberals accuse Rush Limbaugh of. That is you in this game. Play the role 
of the Evil White European Male in this game.

12. Wonderful Native American; You are wonderful, You are Nature, You are 
one with the land, You can do no wrong. Unfortunately, you are not allowed 
to play the Wonderful Native American in this game because you now have 
America as your home, the way it was before the invasion of the Evil White 
European.

	Now, if I have not succeeded in offending you, Good luck, you will 
need it.



	Oh, by the way, Wallace can't play. He will suffer severe mental 
angush if he does. (He is busy suing Compton's CD-ROM eneyclopedia over a 
historical reference to a word considered "racist" by liberals).

Any key to start the game.

