meal time.
meal time.
meal time.
it is time to go eat your most nourshing meal.
lets go eat that most nourshing meal.
go to the dinette, sit at the console, and eat your most nourshing meal.
for your own good and well being, go to the dinette. now! and eat your most nourshing meal.
if you don't go eat a most nourshing meal now, you will be punished.
go to the food console . now! and eat!
if you don't eat now, robocop will come in and make you eat.
drink time
drink time
drink time
it is time to go get a drink of super pure water.
lets go get a drink of super pure water.
go to the dinette, sit at the console, and get your super pure water.
for your own good and well being, go to the dinette. now! and get your drink.
if you don't go get a drink of super pure water, you will be punished.
go to the food console . now! and get your drink!
if you don't get your drink now, robocop will come in and make you drink.
bathroom break.
bathroom break.
bathroom break.
it is time to go use the bathroom.
lets go use the bathroom.
go to the bathroom, sit on the toilet, and use it.
for your own good and well being, go to the bathroom. now! and use the toilet.
if you don't go to the bathroom now, you will be punished.
go to the bathroom, now! and use the toilet!
if you don't use the toilet now, robocop will come in and make you.
shower time
shower time
shower time
it is time to take a shower and go to bed.
lets go take a shower and go to bed.
go to the bathroom, take a shower, and go to bed
for your own good and well being, take a shower. now! and go to bed.
if you don't go take a shower and go to bed, you will be punished.
go to the bathroom. now! and take a shower and go to bed!
if you don't take a shower and go to bed now, robocop will come in and make you.
bed time
bed time
bed time
it is time to go to bed.
lets go to bed.
go to the bathroom, take a shower, and go to bed
for your own good and well being, go to bed.
if you don't go to bed, you will be punished.
go to the bedroom. now! and go to bed!
if you don't go to bed now, robocop will come in and make you.
The tannoy is here to re-train your mind.
We need not wait for proof before taking action.
your glor-re-ous leaders will make all decisions for you.
every-thing is provided for your own good and well being.
E-vil white euro-peans are re-spond-able for all the social ills of so-ciety.
Animals have the right to live in peace.
A woman is raped ever three minute by e-vil test-ro-sone in-fest-ted men.
E-vil white euro-pee-ans are responsible for the rape of the planet.
guns are dangerous and for-bidden.
Bill Clin-ton is your hero.
pet over-pop-u-lation is a big prob-lem in the panic society.
pop-u-lation control is needed to protect the earth.
Columbas was an e-vil person that exploited na-tive americans.
The greed-dy life style of middle class americans is responsible for the destruction of the planet.
3 unwanted animals are killed every 2 second in the panic society.
Twenty million unwanted animals are put down every year in the panic society.
ra-gan is re-sponable for the deficit.
the rain forest is being de-stroyed by mac don-alds.
Your glorious leaders took away your smog producing dangerous cars for your own good and well being.
Mink farming is responable for the green-house effect.
meat stinks!
pet owner-ship is an abs-sol-lute-ly ab-sym-mal sit-u-ation brought about by hu-man mam-nip-u-lation.
Extravagant lifestyles of evil white europeans have caused global warming.
com-pan-ion animals are to be phase-ed out for your own good and well being.
do-mess-tic animals must become ex-tinct for their own good and well being.
your use of air conditioning has caused the ozone hole.
pee-ple have grown like a can-cer on the earth.
your use of spray cans caused the o-zone hole in the ann-arctic.
pee-ple are the big-est blight on the face of the earth.
medical re-search is des-pict-able and im-moral.
Free-on destroys the o-zone.
wild animals belong in their nat-ural en-viron-ment.
you will not eat rot-ting flesh.
e-vil far-mers nail the feet of veal calves to the barn floor.
re-search labs tor-ture animals
logging destroy the forest.
E-vil american cities poison the air
na-tive a-mer-i-cans are one with the land.
leave na-ture a-lone.
farming has ruined wetlands.
animals are not ours for eat-ing.
farmers are cruel to animals.
animals are not ours for enter-tain-ment.
Milk is full of dangerous chemicals.
animals are not ours to use for any pur-pose.
Man is the most dangerous, de-structive, sel-fish, and un-ethical animal on earth.
Farmers spray dangerous pesticides all over everything.
chlorine is re-sponsable for causing cancer.
the cut-ing up of animals in bi-olgy class is im-mor-al.
ted ken-a-dee is your hero.
we must institute the chinese communist system of compulsory abortion to save the planet.
can-ned tu-na is full of dol-phin.
ing-red new-kirk is your hero who de-fends the rights of animals.
the labor saving devices and appliances of everyday life consume fossil fuels and poison the environment.
phas-ing out the hu-man race will solve every problem on earth.
bill clin-ton is your hero.
All of this nonsense of getting into the family car and driving off on vacation must cease.
clar-ance tom-as is a sex-u-al har-rass-er.
an-neat-ta hill is a hero.
The rich and intelligent must not propagate.
The rich are dangerous because they promote overpopulation.
The rich are the cause of most of the world's ills.
Right now, there are way too many people on the planet.
The boy scouts is a mag-i-net for attracting child mol-les-ters.
all uncles are child mol-les-ters.
teen girls ne-ver lye.
teen boys al-ways lye.
The endangered species is the fault of too many people on the planet.
fur is dead.
mike ty-son did not do it.
land that is wet to 7 inches of the surface for seven consecutive growing days is protected wetland.
farming is rape-ing the land.
Sixty percent of the United States was once wetland.
cattle raising has des-troyed the planet.
sheep and goats are the locust destroying the planet.
fifth-ty acres of for-est are destroy-ed to make one Mac Don-alds ham-burg-ger.
The environment is more important then private property.
gor-by is your hero.
prayer is for-bidden.
Your glorious leader knows what is best for you
if you play with it, you will go blind.
The hu-man spee-cies is an envir-ment-tal ab-norm-mal-a-ty.
1 acre of forest is destroyed every second.
Common sense no longer exist in the panic society.
Hu-mans are a failed species.
It is dangerous to go outside.
The ozone has been destroyed by air conditioning and spray cans.
More people are injured riding horses then riding motorcycles.
Kids are always drowning in lakes, pools, and water buckets.
Teen girls are constantly getting pregnant.
Religion is the opium of the people.
Catholic priest are constantly molesting kids.
Your brain will fry if you use drugs of any kind.
Computer games are e-vil.
Dungeon and dragons is an e-vil time wasting game.
Automobiles are dangerous.
Automobiles have des-troyed the envir-ment.
Guns kill people.
The oceans have been poisoned by e-vil big oil companies.
Bush destroyed the e-conomey.
Rich people rob from the poor because they refused to pay their fair share of taxes.
Ted Ken-e-dy did not do it.
Coke is not it.
Jack in the box res-tur-rant serve poison meat.
Native american are at one with the earth.
The oceans are rising because of global warming.
E-vil White Euro-peans are responsible for global warming.
Abortion is a right and should be promoted.
Many of the tannoy quotes are actual statements made by various liberals and can be found in many of their publications.
end
end
end
