                    LLAMATRON - Shareware game


This game is based on an old Williams arcade game by the same dude
who wrote Defender.  The game - ROBOTRON - was a big hit in the early
Eighties, and an official sequel - Smash TV - was an arcade hit last
year.  Llamatron takes the Robotron idea and distorts it in a Yakly
fashion, adding loads of new stuff and plenty of furry beasties in
the Llamasoft style.  We could have flogged it as a pretty good budget
game via conventional means, but Yak decided to try it as shareware
'coz he liked the idea so much.

Here's the deal.  You play Llamatron and check out the hook.  If it
gets you (and I reckon it will if you like mayhem), then send us a
fiver and, as a reward for being so honest, we will send you an
ace poster of our gun-toting llama, a newsletter, and a complete
copy of Gridrunner,  a  classic Amiga blaster which won the  award 
for   Best   Budget   release   in   1989. Two games for a fiver -
 can't be bad.  And if the response is good, there will be more
Shareware. And better.

We're asking a Shareware fee of five pounds for Llamatron, and you
should send your money to: LLAMASOFT, 49 Mount Pleasant, Tadley,
Hants RG26 6BN, U.K. Do let us know what you think of the game and the
principle of Shareware in general, too.

Now, how to play Llamatron is what you want to know, so here goes:

LOADING THE GAME:

Type LLAMA for the 1 Meg version that has cleaner samples than the 512K
version. Type LLAMA512 if you have the other version.


HOW TO PLAY LLAMATRON:

You  can start the game as supplied with this initial  release  by 
typing the command LLAMA512 (half meg) or LLAMA (1meg) at the CLI. 
(If  anyone  changes the game load procedure in  any  way,  please 
include docs to say how to run the game).

You need a joystick in your other socket. Boot up the game from
wherever you've put it.

Once it has loaded you'll see the intro screen. Press FIRE to
get past it. You might like to read the scroller that follows
for a summary of the gameplay.

At the title screen, moving the joystick up/down selects 1 or
2 player mode, left/right selects between Solo, Player+Droid
and Team mode.  For Team mode, plug another stick into the
mouse socket for your partner to control his camel with.

You press FIRE to begin play.

GAME OBJECTIVES:

You play the part of a totally hard laser-spitting llama. Your
mission is to collect all the tiny sheep, llamas, camels and
goats you see on each wave.  Standing in your way are great
herds of unintelligent but numerous Grunt enemies, plus a veritable
menagerie of nasty creeps which fire at you, dodge your fire, emit
fire hydrants, try to ram you, murder your llamas and shoot your ass
off with lasers. Kill them deadly.

Not everything can be killed, and some enemies take more than one
shot to destroy.

Your ultimate objective - destroy the Ozric Tentacle of level 99
and get to Herd Heaven on level 100.

USING THE JOYSTICK:

The llama fires continuously. For your first few levels, don't press
the FIRE button at all while you get used to moving the llama around.
Always use the Droid option while you are learning - you can concentrate
on just not running into anything while your Droid goes and gets all
the beasties.

The FIRE button comes into its own in the advanced and utterly necessary
technique of 'locking'.  This enables you to lock the angle of fire,
so you can keep firing at a target whilst running away from it! It is
quite simple - with the fire button NOT pressed, walk in the direction
you want to aim in, then hold down FIRE and walk away - the fire angle
is locked until you release the firebutton.  With practise you will
learn to lock and re-aim very quickly in tight spots.  Remember
that good locking makes for a living llama!

POWERUPS:

From time to time, and depending on whether you collect your beasties
up and which targets you kill, you'll see various powerup icons
drift temptingly in your general direction. Get these for groovy
stuff like 3-way shots, Invincibility, extra llamas, Warp five
levels, Smart Bombs (looks like a tomato) and Floyd bonuses. If you
leave the title page alone for a minute, a scroller will occur which
shows you what all these things look like.


BROLLIES:

On some levels you may see a number of brollies floating around on
the screen.  These brollies make it rain from the top and right
side of the screen, the intensity of the precipitation being
determined by the number of umbrellas.  To stop the rain, touch
each brolly with the body of your llama, causing it to open.

PLAY MODES:

There are three play modes and an optional extra 2-joystick mode.
The modes are:

1: Standard 1-Player... just you and them.

2: Player Plus Droid... You are joined by a purple blob, which is
invincible, and does much funky stuff, like tootle round getting all
your beasties for you and shoot up the meanies for you.  You are
advised to play your first few games with the Droid helping you.

3: Team Mode... You are joined by a friend, who happens to be a
camel. You work together to get the beasties and trash the opposition.
You share a common score and lives. 

Two-joystick mode: If you are lucky enough to have a setup which
allows you to use two joysticks bolted to a table, one in each hand,
you can use this mode, which recreates the firing method of the
Williams arcade machines.  You use the usual stick to move your
llama, and the second stick to aim the shots.  To access this mode
begin a game by pressing FIRE on the second stick instead of your
usual one.


GAME TIPS:

- Play your first few games with a droid, and don't worry about using
Lock until you're ready.  Once you master Lock, you'll really start to
go places and kick serious ass.

- Do collect your beasties.  It's good for your score, increases
the chance of Invincibilities, Love Hearts, Warps and 3-Ways, and
gives you a brief period of Hot Bullets, which can be seriously
useful, especially where Screaming Mandies are concerned!

- Get Love Hearts. The beasties love you and run towards you, for
about sixty seconds.

- If the last thing you do on a level is collect the last beastie
or a 3-Way icon, then the first object destroyed on the next wave will
yield another 3-Way. Grab this for immediate kickass blastability!

- Give 'em llama fury!
