

      SKID ROW - THE DOX FOR [-ROBOZONE-] WERE TYPED IN BY SCOOTER.
      - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

                             NEW YORK 2067.

From the very start of the industrial revolution back in the 18th
century,mankind had been slowly killing the planet. With the one hand he has
exhausted all of mother natures natural resources and with the other he has
repaid her by saturating the atmosphere with dirt and pollutants.

As mankind stumbled into the polluted wake of the 21st century,the worlds
greatest brains began to reliase that unless something was done
immediately, life on earth would soon become an out of date concept.

The ultimate decision came from the highest corridors of power on the planet-
only those `chosen few` from each of the major population centers of the
world would be saved, living a self conaine life on secretly built city ships
far out to sea. Those left behind would have to fend foe themselves in the
mountains and the hills, away from the decaying cities. their reasoning was
logical but without human compassion: was it not better that a selected few
survive and re-build, than none at all.

They estimated that the pollution that hung over the cities would hopefully
disappear given a decade or two so the order was given to construct
Wolverine, large robots programmed to patrol deserted cities and keep them
intact for the eventual return.

At first, crime was rampant and Wolverine was faced with the conflict of
programming. Their prime objective was to protect the city for the return of
the Chosen few, but the biggest danger to the city came from the criminal
elements who still lived in it. Their most basic robotic law prevented them
from directly or indirectly harming human life, yet they were unable to 
perform their prime directive without breaking this law. As a result, many of
the wolverine were destroyed by the humans who were increasingly bitter 
against anything that represented the authorities who had abandonded them. 
Only a few short months after the golden voyage, a war had begun, 
unfortunately, a third side was about to enter the fray...

                         THE COMING OF THE SCAVENGERS.
                         -----------------------------

They cane from nowhere, at first their purpose was not clear. the huge insect
like robots indulged in an orgy of destruction, tearing apart anything that
stood in their way. Most of the people who had decided to stay in the cities
fled as soon as the Scavengers appeared, but a few opted to stay and live 
like rats in the ruins.

After a few months of intense activity, the Scavengers purpose became clear.
An enormous area around what used to be central park was completely leveled 
by them, and in its place was built a huge domed building(the furnace). The
Scavengers sent out raiding parties to Scavenge metal and other alloys they
could get their pincers on, and and they then returned their bounty to the
building were it was recycled and used for either the manufacture of more
Scavengers or for another `secret` purpose...

Naturally the lat of the Wolverine had to protect the city from these dark
invaders, but their weaponary was`nt designed for full scale combat. Slowly 
but surely,the Wolverine became more and more depleted until only 1 remained.

The last remaining Wolverine has brocken his programming,but at a cost his in
built libary computer known as ORACLE has been damaged beyond repair. His
ability to defend himself has also been severly reduced. what little
instrumentation he has that is working indicates that far from pollution 
levels falling, pollution is increasing at an alarming rate!!. All of the 
available data suggests that the major source of the new pollution emantes 
from the mysterious building that the Scavengers have built in central park.
If the pollution level continues to increase,Wolverine will soon be unable to
fuction. His only course of action is to somehow repair his systems and 
destroy the building before its too late. As always things aren't quite that 
straight forward...

                                CONTROLS

ON THE AMIGA AND ATARI ST -ROBOZONE- IS CONTROLLED BY JOYSTICK ONLY. 
ADDITIONAL KEYS ARE...

P.......PAUSE
ESC.....QUIT
S.......SOUND EFFECTS ON/OFF (SELECT ON CREDITS SCREEN ONLY)
M.......MUSIC ON/OFF (SAME AS SOUND EFFECTS..CREDIT SCREEN ONLY)

ON IBM AND 100% COMPATIBLE MACHINES...

ON THE PC/COMPATIBLES -ROBOZONE- CAN BE PLAYED WITH JOYSTICK OR BY KEYBOARD.
THE FOLLOWING KEYS ARE AVAILABLE:

Q...........UP
A...........DOWN
O...........LEFT
P...........RIGHT
SPACE.......FIRE
H...........PAUSE
CTRL AND Q..QUIT TO DOS

                            9 AM ON A NEW YORK SUBWAY

The area surrounding the furnace has been completely sealed off. Wolverines
only chance is to try and find a way through the disused new york subway 
system which will hopefully lead him into the remains of the streets of the 
big apple.

HOLES
-----
The next part of this was a description of the screen..you know what I
mean..holes in the floor..wolverine can jump through them to reach lower
levels, he can also jump back up by positioning himself beneath them, 
crouching down then leaping up in one movement. Pushing left or right once 
in the air will ensure that wolverine pulls himself up to the left or right 
of the hole.

PICK UP
-------
Scattered through out the subway are enormous components from other less
fortunate wolverine robots. wolverine can collect and use these by crouching
down and picking them up *the components will give Wolverine extra weaponary*
and energy boosts.

CURRENT ENERGY
--------------
Wolverine starts the game with maximum energy levels. If he is it by 
Scavenger fire or he collides with a scavenger or drops from a great height 
then his energy level will decrease. Energy can beboosted by collecting 
energy pick ups.

SCORE
-----
The current score is shown at the top,slightly centre of the screen,when you
complete a level, it will be carried over to the next level of the game.

CURRENT WEAPON AND AMMO COUNTER
-------------------------------
Wolverine is equipped with a basic gun which allows controlled bursts of fire
until 999 bullets have been released. He then reloads with another 999.

POLLUTION LEVEL
---------------
The longer Wolverine takes to complete each  level, the higher the pollution
level will become. Once the level reaches maximum,Wolverine will collapse and
the game will end. The pollution level is carried over from 1 level to the
next, so it is very important that each level is mapped so Wolverine can
complete them in the minimum time.(pollution level is shown on a gauge bottom
left of the picture)

                       LEVEL 2..THE STREETS OF NEW YORK

Wolverine has successfully negotiated his way through the subway tunnels and
now faces the streets of New York. If he is to reach the scavengers furnace
then he needs to re-build his Oracle computer,the source of all his knowledge.
hidden in the streets  are the Oracle components that Wolverine requires. At
the start of a level he doesn't know how many components,collecting them and
getting them there are or even what they do. Only by being fitted will this
information become available.

CONTROL
-------
Push forward on your joystick to move Wolverine forward, pull back for a few
seconds to make Wolverine face in the opposite direction. Whenever Wolverine
walks up to a crossroads, he can walk left or right into the roads. The view
will then switch to show Wolverine facing in his new direction. To aid in
mapping, note the city backgrounds change depending on which direction 
Wolverine is facing.
When firing at an enemy, Wolverine can change the elevation of his fire power,
simply press forward and hold down fire and then pull back to raise the
elevation or push foward to lower the elevation of the shots.

To collect pick ups in the streets simply move Wolverine over the item.

THE SCIENTIST
-------------
When the chosen few were selected for the Golden Voyage, one eminent robotic
engineer was ommitted from the list. He did not agree with the vetting system
of excluding those not deemed worthy of saving and so he eventually fell of
favour. For months he worked on the design of the Wolverine, thinking that 
they were to be used in the restoration of the cities and their 
transformation into cleaner and safer environments. He was kept in the dark 
about the elitist city ships until after the Wolverine designs were 
completed, then they were re-programmed to follow the new directives.

Wolverine must locate the scientist and seek out his help. His 1st priority
should be the communications circuit,which will enable him to establish 
contact with the scientist known only as `tank', unless wolverine gets this 
circuit, tank will probably attack him as if he were an enemy.

Apart from the Oracle components, there are many extra weapons available to
Wolverine throughout the level. Once again,the pollution level indicator will
rise the longer you take to complete the game. Not all of the weapons that
Wolverine can collect will function correctly as many of them are the remains
of previously destroyed Wolverines and are not necessary reliable.

                               LEVEL 3
                  OUT OF THE FIRE AND INTO THE FURNACE

Wolverine has regained the oracle and is now ready to enter the furnace and
destroy it, before the pollution gets too high. With the aid of his rocket
boosters,now back and functioning normally, Wolverine is able to penetrate 
the outer defences of the furnace.

Half constructed Scavengers wake,detecting Wolverines presence as he flies
by.New scavenger robots and previously unseen flying craft swoop down to
attack,desperate to destroy the intruder before he reaches the heart of the
furnace.
There are many extra pick ups that Wolverine can use inside the furnace.
Extra weapons are available,and energy can be restored if Wolverine can 
survive long enough. The very heart of the furnace forms the belly of an 
enormous furnace guardian.(also known as the protector) who is heavily armed
and very dangerous.
If the wolverine can destroy him, then he will not only stop the source of
pollution be he will permantly terminate the manufacture of new scavengers.

and thats yer lot.....................typed in by scooter - 31/10/91 -


         ----------------------------------------------------------
         THIS FILE WAS DOWNLOADED FROM `THE CENTRUM' (312) 776-0417
             SYSOP: REEET-MON   CO's: LOVERBOY - TOM/FAiRLiGHT
         ----------------------------------------------------------
