BreakEdit v0.6 B Documentation, Version 1.0B.
Author:        Jeroen Knoester
Creation date: 09/06/1998

Contents:

    Version Info
    Terms of usage / liscense
    Installing BreakEdit
    File info
    Running BreakEdit
    Using BreakEdit
    Removing BreakEdit
    Contacting Power Programs

An Amiga-Guide and HTML version of this documentation will be
written one day.

Version info:

Version 0.6 B(eta)
This version of BreakEdit is not yet complete.

The following features are not implemented at all:

- Moving levels.
- Several drawing tools are not implemented.
    - Fill
    - Clear
    - Copy
    - Palette. This feature will probably be replaced
               by the set-editor
- Advanced memory info does not exist yet.
- There is no online help yet.
- There is no way yet to load in a different gfx set.
- There is no way to create a new gfx-set yet.

The following features are only partially implemented:

- Mouse control in editor- & sub- screens.
- Several sub-screens need to be redesigned.
- No message is given when a value is out of range.
  the value will be set to it's maximum/minimum, though.
- Deleting levels.

The Following bugs are known:

- BreakEdit may try to load corrupt packages.
- Several variables are not updated on the menu correctly when loading.
- Several functions reset input each time they are used.
- Zone numbers are shown at the top of the edit-screen
- Text may appear incomplete. This appears to be an AMOS problem.
- The name fields contains a bug, the del key does not always
  work properly.
- Occasionaly, when deleting the last level, an empty one will
  appear instead of it being deleted properly.

Terms of usage / liscense:

In the following disclaimer "The author" represents the main
programmer on this product, in this case: Jeroen Knoester.

In the following disclaimer "THE SOFTWARE" represents the
software package BreakEdit, including, but not limited to,
the executable code, the documentation and any datafiles.

    The author makes no warranties, conditions or representations express
    or implied, with respect to THE SOFTWARE, its quality, merchantability
    or fitness for any particular purpose. THE SOFTWARE is provided "AS IS".
    In no event shall the author be liable for any special, indirect or
    conseqeuntial damages.

BreakEdit is free software, wich means:

BreakEdit can be used, copied, edited, remade, etc. As long as the
original authors, package name and these terms are clearly mentioned
in the documentation of the so-changed software.

It also means that all source and datafiles are available for
free and should have been included in this package.

Remember, BreakEdit is (C) 1995-1998 Jeroen Knoester / Power Programs.

Now, Have fun!


Installing BreakEdit:

Installing BreakEdit is simple: just copy all the files to the
directory containing BreakOut on your harddisk. You could use
copy ALL for this purpose.

Exapmle:

Work:Projects/Breakout is your BreakOut directory.
DF0: contains breakedit.

Type copy df0: Work:Projects/Breakout ALL

Thats it!


File info:

To avoid virus infection, The executable sizes will now be given:

Main executable:   BreakEdit  - 83580 Bytes.

Running BreakEdit:

Running breakout is simple. Make sure there are no screen savers
running and that you have at least 1 magabyte (maybe a bit more)
of chip-ram available. If the commands assign,iconx and dir are
available, the game will be started by double-clicking the
breakedit_start icon.


Using breakedit:

BreakEdit is designed using A.S.O.S. v1.34e, PowerPrograms AMOS
GUI package. For the most part, the full version of BreakEdit
will be easy to use. However, this version is beta, so there are
some things to know.

Using the Main Menu:

First click on continue to get rid of the credits of ASOS.

Now, you'll see the BreakEdit main-menu.

It is split in three sections:

Level info, wich contains information about the currently
selected level and level controls.

Level package info, wich contains information about
the current level-packages as well as several control options.

Other info, wich contains free memory info and the remainder of
the control options.

Level Info buttons and their use.

The name field can be altered by clicking in it with the mouse
and then altering the value using standard keyboard controls.

The next,next 10,previous and previous 10 buttons are used to
select a particular level to edit.

The delete and copy buttons take you to a screen where you can
either delete or copy a single level. CLick on done when you're
done. In the future you will get the option to delete either a single
level or a range of levels.

Level package buttons and their use.

The name field can be altered by clicking in it with the mouse
and then altering the value using standard keyboard controls.

The bonus percentage field can be altered to select the global
bonus value of the level package. 100% is the maximum, 0% the
minimum. Note: The bonus chance of ALL levels is changed this
way.

The level-type button controls the type of package. Clicking it
with the mouse changes it to its next value. There are three
posibilities:

Extended - This type of package will include End of level bosses
           eventually. Currently it is equal to a Standard
           package.
Standard - This type of package is the bog-standard package
           included as standard. No bosses or other special
           features here.
Editor   - This type of package is meant for the special 'sets'
           It can be loaded as a standard package by BreakOut as
           well, but is meant for Sets. This setting will in the
           future change the 'Sets' settings to include this
           package. In short: It's a -standard- package, wich
           automatically joins the currently edited 'set'.

Other info buttons and their usage.

Advanced memory info does nothing and will probably be removed in
the near future.

Help! does not work yet. The idea is to get some sort of online
help here.

Quit quits the editor.
Load loads a level package.
Save & Save AS are used to save a level package to disk.
Edit level will edit the level displayed in the level-info
section.

Using the editor:

The Breakout editor is simple to use. The put a brick on the
screen, point the mouse at the desired position and press the
left mouse button. There are several positions where no bricks
may be placed, notably at the bottom of the screen. If no brick
is placed, try somewhat higher.

To remove a brick press the right mouse button while the mouse
cursor is placed over the desired brick. It will then be removed.

There are several thing that you can do to a brick. You can
change how it looks, how many times it must be hit, how many
points you get, and what kind of effect destroying / hitting it
will have.

To set the shape ( or colour ) of the brick, press 's'.
A window will now appear, wich shows several bricks. To select
one, simply place the mouse cursor over it and click the left
mouse button. You will see wich brick you have selected at the
right bottom of the window.

Inside the window there are two pieces of text with an arrow
nearby. The first line is 'Multi' with an arrow facing left above
it. This means that the bricks to the left are designed to be
'multihit bricks'. A multihit brick has an animation for when
it's hit. They can be used as single hit bricks, though.

The second line of text is 'Single' with an arrow facing right
beneath it. This means the bricks to the right are designed to be
'singlehit bricks'. A singlehit brick does not have an animation
to show that is has been hit. They can be used as multi-hit
bricks, but the player will not see any animation when they are
hit.

To exit this window, press escape.

If you have changed how a brick looks, all newly pasted bricks
will look like the new brick you chose.

To set the rest of the brick information, press 'b'.
A window will now appear with several text-fields and a number of
buttons in it.

The First field is named hits. By clicking in it with the mouse,
you can change the amount of hits a brick needs before it is
destroyed. You need to type this amount on the keyboard. It
ranges from 1 to 4 and -1 for infinite hits. In other words,
typing -1 in this field will make all newly pasted bricks
invulnerable.

The second field is named score. By clicking in it with the mouse,
you can type the amount points you'd like that brick to be worth.
This amount must be a multiple of 50 and less then 500. If you
make a mistake, the editor will round the score to the nearest
fifty internally, BUT NOT ON SCREEN.

The button brick-type is a cycle-button. Click it to change its
value to the next one.

The following brick types exist:

Normal      - Your standard brick. Nothing special.
Randomizer  - This brick will bounce the ball away in an
              unexpected, random direction.
Teleporter  - This brick will teleport the ball away to a random,
              empty, location. Use with care.
Reappearing - This brick is almost invulerable. If it is
              destroyed, it will come back after some time.
Invisible   - This brick is invisible until hit.

Press Cancel to discard the changes made to the brick.
Press Ok to change the brick type. All bricks pasted after this
change will use the new values.

The third thing you can do is change the background of the level.
You do this by pressing Shift+B.
A new window will appear, in wich a long list of small icons will
be visible. Their will also be some text and two squares on the
screen.

Selecting a background works like this:

With F1-F4 you control wich piece of the 2 by 2 pattern you wish
to change. You can see this by the small white line wich be be
present underneath that bit of the pattern.

Pressing the left mouse button over one of the small icons will
change the chosen position into that icon.

To get a better view of the icons, you can press the right mouse
button over them, to see a close-up view in the bigger square.

If you are done and wish to see the result of your creativity,
press escape. The level background will now be redrawn.

When you are done editing the level, you can press escape to exit
the editor screen. If you do so, you will be asked wheter or not
you wish to keep the level in memory or not. If you don't, your
edits will be lost. If you do, they will be kept, so you can save
them to disk.

Removing BreakEdit:

BreakEdit does not edit any system resources and does not alter
any system files, nor has it any entry in the system environment.

BreakEdit can be removed by simply deleting the directory in wich
it was installed.

Contacting Power Programs:

You can e-mail Power Programs at: jeroen@infothuis.nl
You can send snail-mail to:

Power Programs,
Madelieventuin 40
2724 PL, Zoetermeer
Holland.

Our homepage is at http://www.infothuis.nl/jeroen/
          or at http://www.infothuis.nl/jeroen/PowerPrograms.html

