
Please Note: This text applies to the full version only, serial games are
not available in the demo version.

 The 'How-To-Do' Serial Games Check List
-----------------------------------------

The manual is a little unclear when it comes to playing serial games.
So here is a quick and easy guide...... Modem games are no different
from null modem games as far as these instructions go.


1 - Both machines should select a matching baud rate from the link-up
    menu. Always try 19200 Baud at first. We have connected at much
    faster baud rates also, but 9600 sometimes causes problems.

2 - Decide which machine is to be master, and which is to be slave. Modem
    users decide which machine will answer

3 - See the manual for initialising the connection

4 - If a successful connection is established both users will be returned
    to the 'Link-Up' menu, and the 'Hang Up' (or hand up according to the
    manual!) option should now be available. Both users must select Hang-Up
    if they want to quit the connection, and if you are informed that
    an error has occurred at any point you *must still* select hang up.

5 - The 'Slave' machine then selects Exit, and starts a game. When prompted
    for the number of players, this refers to the number of players on
    the 'Slave' machine, not the total number of players.

6 - Once the number of players has been selected, the screen will go blank

7 - Once this is done the 'Master' machine should do the same thing. The 
    'Master' machine then decides all further gameplay options.

8 - With the 'Slave' machine still blacked out, the players on the 'Master'
    machine select their cars. Once this is done, players on the 'Slave'
    machine can do the same thing.

9 - Once this is complete, the game will start. You may have to wait for
    the other machine to finish loading, and this can take quite different
    times on different machines.

10 - The Frame rates are *independent*. This means that a fast computer
     can still run the game smoother than the slower computer.

11 - Sometimes the game will suddenly get slow. This is when an error has
     occured. After a few seconds the problem is usually sorted. Sometimes
     faster or slower baud rates can help reduce this problem, as can using
     a shorter serial cable.

12 - Thats about it really :)
