
                               ALIEN BREED 3D II

    ----------------------------------------------------------------------

    Captain Reynolds, the sole survivor of the Osiris  hybrid  break  out,
    had  been  floating  in  space  for  weeks when the Earth Force Battle
    Cruiser heard the Escape Shuttles distress  signal.  With  the  Osiris
    complex  destroyed  and  cruiser  now  making  its  way back to Earth,
    Reynolds lay unconscious in a high security medical unit. The Shuttles
    distress signal , however, had not only reached his saviours....

    A  huge  dark shadow moved silently across the river of emptiness that
    is space. Progressing  slowly  toward  the  battle  cruiser,  using  a
    cloaking  system, making it invisible to sensors and tracking devices.
    Its vastness dwarfing one of Osiris many  moons.  In  its  relentless,
    silent orbit around the dark side of the planet, advancing mercilessly
    on its intended prey, having closed  in  on  the  cruiser  the  shadow
    lunged forward.

    Reynolds awakes in the unfamiliar surroundings of the battle cruisers,
    medical unit. His head still spinning he looks around,  everything  is
    silent.  He  moves out into the corridor to find the outside door lock
    has been shot out, isolating the medical bay.

    An unholy beast/like shriek echoes from the  distance,  Reynolds  mind
    flickers  with  remembrance. The body of a dead soldier draws Reynolds
    attention. Reynolds face  drains  of  colour  with  past  memories  he
    retrieves  a  pulse  rifle  from  the  corpse  and glares into the dim
    distance... The nightmare starts once more.


    MACHINE REQUIREMENTS.

    2-2  pixel rate, low resolution game Requires an AGA Amiga with 2MB of
    RAM.

    1-1 pixel rate, high resolution game requires an  Amiga  with  4MB  of
    RAM,  preferably 030 processor or above and contains many features not
    present in the 2MB version.


    LOADING THE GAME

    To  run  AB3DII from the game disks place disk one into you disk drive
    and power up your Amiga, insert disk two only when prompted and follow
    all on/screen instructions.


    INSTALLATION TO HARDDRIVE

    To install AB3DII to your harddrive place disk 2 into the  disk  drive
    and  double click on the game icon, follow the on-screen instructions.
    If your machine has only 2Mb of memory it is advisable to boot with no
    start-up  sequence,  this  is  done by holding down both mouse buttons
    when powering the Amiga and clicking on  the  Boot  with  no  start-up
    sequence option.


    THE GAME

    You play as Captain Reynolds. After  escaping  the  onslaught  of  the
    Osiris Complex you find yourself aboard the battle cruiser.

    You  must  make  your  way around to discover what has happened to the
    crew. How the breed had  managed  to  get  aboard,  then  follow  your
    Instincts  to  take  you to strange new environments. Each level has a
    specific task or mission to fulfil, with each  successfully  completed
    level you gain more knowledge of the Breeds overall objective.


    MAIN SCREEN

    Options are as follows
            Player 1/2 option       Default being one player
            Play Game               Starts your game
            Control Options         Redefine keyboard operations
            Game Credits            List of mission personnel

    Load/Save, Brings up a menu allowing you to load  or  save  your  game
    status.  To create a save disk backup the second disk (the level disk)
    and save/load from and to this back  up  disk.  This  option  is  only
    accessible after finishing or before starting a level.


    TWO PLAYER MODE.

    Link two Amigas using a serial lead, one must choose the option Master
    and  the  other  as  Save,  any  level up to, and including, the level
    loaded on the Master computer can be selected for the two player game.


    LOOK OUT FOR COLLECTABLE ITEMS (in the game stupid)

            Medi/pack
            Ammo cartridges
            Weapons

    N.B. There are many items that you will need to  collect  as  part  of
    level missions or tasks, a description of each item will scroll across
    the screen when it is collected.


    AUTO MAP

    2Meg version - Press Tab key to activate, this will pause the game and
    bring Up a map of the level you are playing, but only  the  areas  you
    have uncovered will be displayed.

    4Meg  version  - Press Tab key to activate, this will overlay the game
    screen with a map, zoom in and out with the F1 and F2  key.  Move  the
    position  of  the  map by use of the Numeric Keypad as detailed in the
    controls section.


    ANTI-GRAV PACK

    In  later  levels  you  will  find an Anti-Gravity Pack, you must find
    various fuel terminals to power the pack, beware as  it  only  remains
    activated  for  a  few  seconds  so use it when you really need to. To
    activate the fuelled Anti-Grav Pack press the  0  (jump)  key  on  the
    numeric keypad.


    CONTROLS

    The keyboard options are fully re-definable, the default values are as
    follows.

    Arrow keys:

                       Move forward

            Turn left Move backwards Turn right


    >
    "  Side-step left

    ?
    /  Side-step right

    D  Duck

    L  Look behind

    }
    ]  Look up

    @
    #  Look down

    Space bar  Operate door/switch

    Right alt  Fire

    Right shift  Run

    Right amiga  Force side-step

    Tab  Activate Auto-Map

    :
    ;  Center View

    P  Pause

    F1  Zoom In Auto-Map (4mb only)

    F2  Zoom Out Auto-Map (4mb only)

    F3  Surround Sound Toggle

    F4  Lighting Effects On/Off (4mb only)

    F5  Last Text Message Recall

    F6  Rendering Quality Toggle (4mb only)

    ESC  Quit



    NUMERIC KEYPAD CONTROLS

    7 8 9

    4   6   Scroll Map View

    1 2 3


    5       Centre On Player

    +       Enlarge screen

    -       Reduce screen

    0       Jump Anti/grav Thruster


    OPERATING SYSTEM SELECTION

    J Joystick/Joypad

    K Keyboard

    M Mouse

    U Unix (right ;) )


    WEAPONS

    You start the game with a double barreled shotgun that you find in the
    in  the  medical  bay  when you begin your quest, as you make your way
    around the game you will be able to  collect  more  powerful  weapons.
    These will be displayed as a number in the weapons panel on the screen
    border layout. The weapon can be selected by pressing  the  equivalent
    number  key  on your keyboard. Using the flipper on the joypad toggles
    the available weapons.


    Shock/Crystal

    ----------------------------------------------------------------------

