                            THE BIG RED ADVENTURE
                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
                            Typed by TROLL of LSD
 
                                   PART ONE
                                   ~~~~~~~~

    At the hotel,Doug examines the photo taken at  the  museum.Using  your
    inventory,open  the  envelope  to  discover  the  photographs from the
    museum.They have been developedas follows:

    Picture 1: The crown picture shows the locations of the scanners.
    Picture 2: Museum security at front door.
    Picture 3: Museum roof and trapdoor.
    Picture 4: Same gallery,but including one of the cameras.
    Picture 5: Miss Glasnost 1993 at a fashion show in red square.

    Now examine each of the photographs and go over to your  suitcase.Pick
    up   the  suitcase  using  your  inventory  options  and  examine  the
    contents.Here you will find a tape recorder and tape measure  for  use
    later in the game.
    Move over to the desk with the T.V set on it and pick  up  the  camera
    and  the  remote  control.Use  this  to  turn on the T.V.You'll now be
    watching  the  end  of  the   Matrioska   show.The   shows   presenter
    Stroganoff,will  tell  you  how  to  enter the show.He puts up an open
    invite to meet him at the Russian Doll Show.To play,you need  only  to
    send  the  ticket  from  the  New  Pravda  (THE LOCAL TV GUIDE).Before
    leaving your room,make sure you pick up the T.V aerial and add  it  to
    your inventory.Now go to hotel foyer.

                                  THE FOYER
                                  ---------

    Pick up and take the rope on the wall next to entrance  to  your  room
    .Now  go  over  to the porter and give him your key before exiting via
    the bottom of the screen.Once outside,go to newsagent.Look at and  buy
    all the magazines.On examination you'll find the Encyclopedia of Opera
    has a free cassette,the New Pravda has your free  ticket  and  Capital
    has   a  stamp.Buy  all  the  magazines  by  firstly  talking  to  the
    newsagent.If you run out of cash,put the T.V aerial on the  scales  to
    the left of the stand and receive a further four Rouble Dollars.
    Examine the free  ticket  to  find  you  will  have  to  answer  three
    questions to qualify:

    Question 1: How many R's are there on the label of Dostoyevsky
                Caviar,the Muscovite's favourite?
    Question 2: What is the height,in cans of Vodkacola,of the statue of
                Karl Marx in Red Square?
    Question 3: What is the weight of the Great Bear,the bear meat
                hamburger produced by the Burger Tsar fast food chain?

    To answer the questions you must go first to Red Square.

                                  RED SQUARE
                                  ----------

    To the right outside the hotel is the way to  the  gum  store  in  Red
    Square.The  queue  is  huge  so  point to the right of the base of the
    statue and click when another caption comes up.This takes  you  across
    to  the burger joint Mc Romanov.When your there go to the bottom right
    corner to examine the old red car and find the broken camera.Take  the
    camera  and  examine  it to find a brand new film and walk over to the
    burger bar.Buy a Vodkacola and  then  a  sandwich.When  asked:'Max  or
    Gigantic?'go  for Gigantic.Then get a Great Bear Burger.Don't eat your
    burger and don't drink your cola.Take the  salt  and  bread  from  the
    counter and head back to Red Square instead.
    Head straight to the man  in  the  front  of  the  queue  at  the  gum
    store.You'll  talk to a large bearded man who tells you that the queue
    is for razor blades which have only just come back  into  stock.Finish
    the  conversation  and go to the Japanese tourist in the middle of the
    square.
    Get the tourist to take your picture using your camera with the statue
    in the background.This will take a few attempts before it's correct so
    examine each photo after it is taken.After the third  duff  photo  the
    film  will run out.Ask to borrow one from the tourist before selecting
    the spare  film  and  getting  it  to  reload.The  fourth  picture  is
    correct,showing  Doug  next  to  the  statue,with Doug being half it's
    size.
    Examine the photo andthen measure the can of cola with the measure you
    got  from  your case.To do this,Select the can and keep doing so until
    Doug works out what to do.The can is 12cm tall.Doug is 128cm tall  and
    the statue is twice his height so the statue is 28 cans tall.
    Now go back to the scales by the newsagents.Weigh  yourself  and  then
    eat  the burger and weigh yourself again.You will find that the burger
    weighs a godd value seven pounds.

                                   THE PARK
                                   --------

    Go back to your hotel room and pick up your  computer  before  heading
    off  to  the park.Make your way to the center of the park where you'll
    find a  small  boy  sitting  on  a  bench  playing  with  a  hand-held
    console.Go  to  the  boy  and  swap  your  lap-top  PC  for  the games
    console.(ITS THE CARTRIDGE IN THE CONSOLE YOUR AFTER ,YOU SEE).
    Wait around now until you see a peddler.Talk to him and he'll try  and
    sell  you  a  watch  before  walking  away.Remember  where you saw the
    peddler because you'll be coming back to him.Now head to  the  railway
    station (VIA THE ROAD BEHIND THE NEWSAGENTS).When you get there select
    the cart from the console and use  it  on  the  cash  machine  on  the
    left.you  should  end  up with 100 Rouble Dollars.Note that the KGB TV
    building is next to the station and then make your  way  back  to  the
    park.
    On your back to the park,stop and chat to the man at the front of  the
    gum  store  queue  again.Doug  will  ask  him to by a tin of caviar in
    return for toilet paper.Go back to the park and meet  the  peddler.Buy
    the toilet roll from him for 100 Rouble Dollars.Head back to the queue
    and swap the loo roll for the caviar.Examine the  time  and  find  the
    answer to the final question.Now head back to the hotel foyer.

                                   THE SHOW
                                   --------

    Back at the hotel,go to the porter and ask to borrow a pen to fill  in
    the  ticket.Select the ticket to fill it in and then put the ticket in
    the  envelope  in  your  inventory,using  the  pen  to  fill  in  your
    address.Next  select  the stamp that you found in the magazine to post
    the ticket.
    Leave the hotel to go to the KGB TV studio.When you get there,post the
    letter.Now  rush  to the hotel and ask the porter if there is any mail
    for you.The porter will hand you a  reply  from  the  studio.Open  the
    reply  and find the invite to the Russian Doll Show and the tickets.Go
    straight back to the KGB  TV  studios  and  hand  the  ticket  to  the
    receptionist.She'll  give  you  a  badge and direct you to studio 5 in
    time for appearance on the show.
    When you get on the show you'r put straight  on  air.There  are  three
    questions about thieves to answer and if you them correct you go on to
    answer the big question and win an air balloon.Don't woory if you  get
    them  wrong  though,it  means  that you have to take a different route
    thriugh stage one and we're gonna give you both the  solutions  anyway
    .simple.

                             IF YOU WIN THE QUIZ
                             -------------------

    Go back to the hotel room and enter the toilet after  your  prize  and
    adding  the  studio lights to your inventory.This leads to a new scene
    high above the city in your new air balloon.Fly to museum and land  on
    the roof.Once inside the museum,go to the crown room and switch on the
    lights near the crown.This blocks out  the  photo  cells,stopping  the
    alarm  going  off.Now  go  into the next room and combine the cassette
    with the recorder to use it.This will blast out the  wonderful  sounds
    of  opera  and have the added benefit of breaking glass cases into the
    bargain.
    Now pick up the ring and go into crown room.Select  the  diamond  ring
    and  use  it  on  the  crown  case  to  cut  a  hole  in the glass.Now
    then,unfortunately you're not going to get the crown  because  another
    thieve will come in and take the crowm from under your nose.You'll end
    up back at your  hotel  room  with  your  face  plastered  over  every
    newspaper in Moscow.
    Head  to  the   newsagents   and   buy   a   copy   of   Consolephobia
    magazine.Examine  it  and  find the password for the Trorsky mainframe
    computer (ITS THE NAME OF THE TENOR WHO SINGS WITH DONNA FATALE AT THE
    BOLSHOI).Head  to  the burger place and meet up with a couple of dodgy
    characters,Alex and Kos.They tell you you they have a  plan  to  break
    into  the  Trotsky  mainframe  and  they  want  you to do it.In return
    they'll give you  a  passport  to  get  out  of  Moscow  before  being
    arrested.They  also  tell  you  that  the mainframe's connected to the
    Worldwide Communication Network and that  thier  email  address,should
    you need it,is Lenin.Komm.
    Go back to your hotel and combine the TV remote with the tape recorder
    and  then  attach  it to the zx 81.All you have to do is find the node
    number for the WWC network.To  do  this,go  to  the  KGB  studios  and
    examine  the  reception  desk  to  find a scrap of paper.The number is
    KGB.NET 007 6 1 0.Now you can use this on the telephone in your  hotel
    room to get the tape recording for Alex and Kos.
    Take the tape to Alex and Kos  and  take  your  passport.Head  to  the
    station  and  show  your  passport  to the guard and get on the Orient
    Express without further ado.

                             IF YOU LOSE THE QUIZ
                             --------------------

    You win a consolation prize of a keyring and then you're left  in  the
    studio.Pick  up  the  studio  lights and use the keyring on the doll's
    head in order to enter a secret passage  leading  to  the  museum.Once
    inside,go  to  the  crown  room  and  switch  on  the  lights near the
    crown.Now go into the next room  and  combine  the  cassette  and  the
    recorder  and  use  it.From  this  point  on  you  should  follow  the
    instructions from what to do if you had won the quiz.



