
                                      STARBOY

    Starboy is an unusual mix of platform and shoot em up  all  controlled
    by joystick.

    When  you  first  play  the game you will that you have to fly a plane
    through the first level to reach the first world.

    The top bar has a percentage complete indicator which  shows  how  far
    you have flown.

    As  you  can  see  from the columns that whizz along the bottom of the
    screen you are automatically being pushed forward,so theres no need to
    try to get to the right side of the screen.

    Whats  important  for  you  is  to  avoid the extremely fast stream of
    enemys that fly at you.

    You do have a weapon  and  can  shoot  them,but  be  aware  there  are
    probably  too  many  to  deal  with in this way,so dodging is the best
    option.

    After this rather unusual start to the game you will land on the first
    world and can start playing the more standard platform game that makes
    up the majority of StarBoy.

    In order to complete a level you need to collect all the bombs up  and
    then make your way to the gate.

    The bombs appear as sticks of dynamite and the exit has a big arrow on
    it!

    Through the levels you will also come across locked doors,to get  past
    these  you  need  to find the switch,which may be close to the door or
    elsewhere on the level.

    Switches appear in the  floor  as  pink  and  yellow  rectangles  with
    circles in them. You will hear a click when you walk over a switch and
    activate it.

    Pink switches open doors and yellow ones close them,you can use  these
    to access other areas or to trap enemies in in rooms.

    When the door is shown as flat against the wall,with a padlock showing
    in the middle,it is open,but if it is shown as  a  thin  stripe,it  is
    viewed from side on and is closed.


    TELEPORTERS.
    ------------

    Also spotted around the levels are teleporters which look a little  as
    smaller exits.

    When  you  walk  into  one  of these you will be teleported to another
    section of the level.

    You need to make use of these to access or escape from  certain  parts
    of levels.

    You  will  also  come  across  areas  where there is water with chains
    linking two areas.

    You cannot fall into the water,but you can jump onto the chains and go
    across the water hand over hand.

    To get off the chains,simply jump up again onto the next platform.

    Be  careful  of  roving  blocks with eyes,which are enemies that guard
    some platforms.

    You will need good timing to jump onto a platform  and  then  straight
    back off again.

    To  protect  yourself you have a weapon which fires stars but you will
    need to practise with it.

    Remember that enemies will take more than one shot  to  bring  down,so
    you may need to take a vantage point above them and drop stars on them
    several times.

    If you do get hit by an enemy  you  will  lose  some  power  which  is
    displayed  by  the  numbe of fingers held up on the hand in the bottom
    left corner of the screen.

    When that is down to zero you will lose a life,losing power  will  not
    change  the  part you are up to,but losing a life will put you back to
    the start position of that level.

    On some levels you will come across  green  "P  UP"  signs  which  are
    health bars you can collect to give you some power back.

    There are also "1 Up" signs which give you an extra life.


    SWEET JOYSTICKS.
    ----------------

    Also dotted around the levels  are  bits  of  computer  equipment.like
    disks and joysticks,and sweets,which you can collect for extra points.

    One tip is that if you can not make a jump onto a higher platform,look
    for one across from it that you can use to jump from.

    You need to stand right on the  edge,which  take  a  bit  of  practice
    exspecially because StarBoy has a little inertia and slides a little.

    If  you  want  to  know  how  many bombs you have left to collect on a
    level.look at the top bar which has an indicator.

    Incidentally you can take advantage the fact that when  you  shoot  an
    enemy  it  will knock it back in the direction it came from,so you can
    use your fire to turn them around and stop them coming towards you.


    Controls.
    ---------

    Up - Jump
    Fire - Fires out a star
    Left - run left
    Right - run right
    Down - Look down

    If you loose all your lives the game is over and it's back
    to the control screen.

    Jr/Data Division

    ----------------------------------------------------------------------

