
                            TFX [ THE BEST BITS ]
                            ----------------------

    In case you had not realised yet,TFX really is amazing! Heres a  quick
    tour of some of the best and most unique bits of the game.


    MOUNTAINS.
    ----------

    Sure we have all seen little pyramid hills  before  in  the  likes  of
    Gunship.

    But you have never seen anything like these before :

    Snowcapped  peeks and extensive ranges of mountains and foothills give
    the landscapes more realism then ever before.

    They are not just here for show either.

    Make sure if you set your sights on a waypoint and go off  to  make  a
    cuppa that you are not headed for a collision with one of them.


    TEXTURE MAPS.
    -------------

    Now common on other platforms,texture mapping is still rarely seen  on
    the Amiga outside of 3D rendering packages and pd demos.

    TFX  uses  them  mainly  for  its virtual cockpit,in which you can see
    limbs and the cockpit move around your field of vision as you bank and
    climb through the skies.

    Theres  also a natty little UN logo on the tail fin of the Eurofighter
    2000.


    GOURAUD SHADING.
    ----------------

    When combined with the models of the  planes,the  ground  installments
    and  the  mountains,the shading gives everything a convincing solidity
    thats missing in most paper dart flight sims.

    Its this which caps the mountain ranges  with  snow,creates  realistic
    washes behind the battleships and even brings the explosions to life.


    CLOUDS.
    -------

    You thought you had seen before didnt you ?.

    Well we are nottalking about two dimensional polygons that sit  up  at
    5,000 feet like some kind of magic carpet.

    No these are proper,real clouds made up of lots of little clouds.

    Go into a climb on a cloudy day and watch as your view fades to grey.

    Keep  going  a  little further and you will emerge into the clear blue
    sky.


    NIGHT FLIGHTS.
    --------------

    You might think that being assigned a night mission  would  be  a  bit
    tedious, nothing to see except the inky blackness "right " ?.

    Well  that  would  be  true in most flight sims in which the scenarios
    consist of a plain,two roads and a shed,but TFX goes out of its way to
    bring you full illuminated cities.

    You  could  almost  believe that you were flying over Las Vegas,except
    Las Vegas is not one of the scearios.


    MASSIVE WORLDS.
    ---------------

    And another thing theres over 3 million square miles  of  terrain  and
    airspace to cover in the game,all taken from real official map data.

    That adds up to 1/40th of the worlds surface area.

    Teres   islands,deserts,cities,rivers,bridges,roads,convoys..you  just
    keep discovering more every time you play.

    Typed by Jr.


