
    Trapped II - Manual
    -------------------

    Controlling the player:
    -----------------------
    - Cursor Keys = move
    - 'Shift'     = force sidestep
    - 'a'         = jump
    - 'y'         = duck
    - left 'Alt'  = attack
    - 'Tab'       = shoot
    - num '7'     = look to roof
    - num '4'     = restore view
    - num '1'     = look to floor


    The weapons:
    ------------
    - '1' to '6'  = use Weapon 1-6

    Each weapon has a different weight, so it will  take  different  times
    for  each to be ready again after an attack. Find out what is the best
    for you, being very fast or causing high damages.

    The potions:
    ------------
    - 'p'         = toggle potions
    - Enter       = drink potion

    There are four potions, blue, red, green, yellow.  Displayed  are  the
    amounts  of each potion from 1 to 9, if you carry more than 9 a '-' is
    displayed. The blue potion is  for  health,  it  refreshes  up  to  25
    points,  the  red potion is the armour potion, and gives you 15 armour
    points. The green one will increase  your  strength  by  one  and  the
    yellow bottles are giving you a speedup for 5 seconds.

    Other keys:
    -----------
    - 'm'         = toggle automapping
    - 'n'         = toggle mip mapping
    - 'i'         = toggle crosshair
    - '+'         = bigger 3D-view
    - '-'         = smaller 3D-view
    - Space       = action (activating switches)


    The menus:
    ----------
    - F1          = toggle screenmode

    You can choose 3 different screenmodes, which are 1x1, 2x1, 2x2 pixel.
    Using any GFX-Board you can only use 1x1 pixel modes.


    - F2          = Automap

    Here you can see the map of the actual level,  well,  of  course  only
    what you have painted.


    - F3          = Character overview

    Here are all important character value shows, the time and your  skill
    level.

    Actual Health    - your health points
    Maximum Health   - your maximum health points
    Dexterity        - aiming enemys
    Your Strength    - your physical strength
    Weapon Strength  - strength of the actual weapon (adding those 2
                       strength value is your attack value)
    Walking Speed    - speed in normal mode
    Running Speed    - speed in fast mode caused by yellow potion or a
                       spell
    Your Delay       - physical body delay to next attack
    Weapon Delay     - delay caused by actual weapon
                       (adding 2 delay value gives your total attack
                       delay)
    Kondition        - refresh time for health points
    magical Kondition- refresh time for mana points


    - F4          = show scrolls

    All scrolls you found at the actual level.

    - F5          = Quitmenu

    Quit                 - quit without saving
    Save and Continue    - saves the game and continues
    Save and Quit        - saves the game and quits
    Load last saved game - loads the last savegame
    Resume               - continuing the game

    It is not possible to have more than one savegame, as in real life  it
    wouldn't  be possible to say: 'hey, i died, let me load again, ok' But
    there shouldn't be any place where you come to a 'dead end'.


    - F6          = Items

    Here you will find all the items you have collected,  use  the  cursor
    keys  to  move  on the item you want to select for the next action and
    press return. Then the item will be used for any action you do.


    - F7          = Spellsmenu

    This screen is divided into two parts, on the left you have the  spell
    book.  press  'b'  to toggle the two pages of spells. On the right you
    have the spell selection menu, use cursor keys to move and press space
    on  one  of  the symbols to move it to the bottom. The bottom displays
    your actual spell. If the spell is done, press return to cast  it.  If
    you  have  moved a wrong symbol to the bottom you have the possibility
    to move it back by pressing right 'Alt', then the cursor moves there.


    - F8          = Options

    Screen Mode           = the same like using the key 'F1'
    Screen Size           = this sets one of the 5 screen sizes for each
                            screen mode
    Sound Effects         = filter on/off, no sfx, playing module
    Bouncing Movement     = banking of the player which can be on/off
                            If you set this to off, you move like a
                            'hovercraft'
    Scroll Textures       = on/off for texture scrolls like water
    3D-2D Transformation  = 320x256 is proportinal for the whole screen
                            320x192 is proprotinal on the 3D-view window
    Mapping Quality       = normal, texture filtering and blur mode can be
                            choose to avoid the big texture pixels
    Texture Type          = normal and mip mapping for the detail quality
                            in long distance surfaces
    Mirrors and Anims     = texture animation and mirrors can be on or off
    Lens Flares           = this toggle the lens flares on and off

    Sound Volume          = from 10 to 100 percent
    Brightness            = from 50 to 150 percent


    - F9          = Spellbook

    Here you will find your book of spells, all the spells you  found  are
    shown by its symbols.

    Health              = refreshes some health points
    Refresh Mana        = refreshes some mana points
    Speed               = will give you speed-mode for some seconds
    Haste               = lets the time go half speed
    Kompass             = generates a magic kompass
    Magic Map           = generates a magic map for a limited time
    Fireball Resistance = you won't be hit by fireballs for some seconds
    Hold Monster        = this paralyses the monsters, but they are still
                          able to attack, some are resistent
    Invulnerable        = decreases every monster attack to 1 hit point
                          for a limited time
    Monster Fear        = monsters are running away, some are resistent
    Drone               = generates a magic drone, which will give you an
                          overview of the dungeon behind you
                          use 'l' to lock the drone at a fixed position
    Static Light        = starts a static lightsource at your actual
                          position
    Healing             = full refresh of your health points
    Trap Protection     = will protect you from arrows and spears
    Levitation          = you will run about 1 feet above the floors,
                          protection on lava and acid
    Astral Projection   = you can leave your body, monsters are walking
                          towards that projection, some are resistent and
                          some monsters can cast this spell too
    Magic View          = will generate a full map of the actual dungeon
    Restore             = refreshes health and mana points to maximum


    Fireball
    Ice Storm
    Cloud Quake
    Fire Column
    Ice Cross
    Death Strike

    These six spells are the active spells. You can  cast  this  spell  to
    give  your  actual  weapon  magical loads, e.g. you have the dagger as
    active weapon you can set  the  'Cloud  Quake'  on  the  weapon,  then
    everytime pressing 'Tab' the active spell will come.


    - F10         = Statistics

    In here you will find a lot of  more  or  less  interesing  statistics
    about your gameplay.


    General information:
    --------------------
    The game is based on the experience point system, this means you  will
    get  points  for  every action you do. When you have got enough points
    you will gain an  experience  level  and  your  character  values  are
    getting  a  little  better. You mana- and health points will increase,
    you can run a little faster, and you are able to attack better.

    So it would be useful to have a look at every room in each dungeon  to
    get  all  the  points  which  are  possible,  so that you player has a
    maximum of points, this will make the game a little easier at the end.

    You will face lots of different traps and be prepared to come into new
    situations every time.

    The  amount  of  spells and the possiblities caused by the spells will
    let you find a solution in every situation, just think  carefully  and
    you will be the winner against all those dark creatures.


    Problems:
    ---------
    If you have problems with the game, contact the programmer at:

    michael@microdata.de



    -[INSTALLATION]-------------------------------------------------------


    Installing the game
    -------------------
    Insert the  CD  Trapped  II  to  your  CD-Rom  Drive  and  select  the
    Trapped_Start Icon with a double click.

    You will be asked for a path where the game should put the saved game.
    The saved game will need about 6MB of free harddisk space  and  it  is
    neccesary  that  you  enter the !!full path!!, this means pressing the
    'Volumes' Button first and then enter the savepath.

    The you will enter the Startup-Menu:

    Startup-Menu
    ------------

    Start a new game        Load old Game

    Gfx_Mode                Menu Mode
    ( ) OCS/ECS             ( ) Standard Pal
    ( ) AGA                 ( ) Double Pal
    ( ) Grafitti
    ( ) Picasso96

    Precalculations
    ( ) Filtering           ( ) MipMapping

                  Animation_Mode
                    ( ) on/off

    Select Start a new game if you want to start a  new  game,  this  will
    delete your old saved game. If you have started a new game you will be
    asked at which skill level you would like to  play  Trapped  II.  Your
    possibilities  are:  Beginner,  Adventurer  and  Hero.  This means the
    easiest is Beginner and the most difficult way to play Trapped  II  is
    if you are a Hero.

    The  Gfx_Mode you select will be use by the 3D-Engine. Supported Modes
    are OCS/ECS/AGA/Grafitti Card/Picasso96 drivers. If you want  to  play
    with  a Cybervision3D you will have to install the P96Emul.library and
    then start the Game in Picasso96 mode. For Graphic cards you will need
    the Picasso96 Drivers, which are available at the Aminet.

    The  Menu-Mode  is  used for the Loading screen, if you have a Monitor
    which is not able to display  standard  pal,  choose  the  double  Pal
    screen.  If  you  choose  DoublePal  you need to install the DoublePal
    driver in your monitors directory. (Attention: the 3D-Engine will runs
    at  standard  pal  (OCS/ECS/AGA/Grafitti)  even  if  you  have  chosen
    Double-Pal for the menu!)

    Precalculations, you can switch some functions of the 3D-Engine, which
    will  take  lots  of time in the Engine-startup, this means each Level
    will be started much faster, but of course you cannot  use  MipMapping
    and Texture-Filtering then. (On an 68060/50 those precalculations will
    take about 7seconds at each level-start, if you use an 68020/28  those
    precalculations  can  take  up to 60seconds at each level-start, so if
    you don't have and 68040/68060 you should switch them to 'off')

    Animation_Mode will toggle the main animations on and off. If you have
    the  Animation_Mode  'on'  you can stop the Animations by pressing the
    left mousebutton.




    -[STORY]--------------------------------------------------------------

    Trapped II - Reincarnation of the Demons
    ----------------------------------------

    About two generations ago it was  your  grandfathers  who  was  strong
    enough  to  fight  against the mighty creatures. After a long and hard
    fight he was able to get all the piece of the wheel of Talmar, so that
    the  high priests at Rak Atun could hold the ban on Tarnak for another
    1000 years, so the people at Kaldrion  could  go  further  with  their
    daily work.

    But something went wrong, Tarnak escaped out of the ban. He killed all
    the priests at the temple.

    The people of Kaldrion left their  homes,  lot  of  them  died,  while
    fighting against the creatures, which came with Tarnak.

    He  took  over the Palace and you are our last hope to defeat the Dark
    Lord Tarnak. He is somewhere at the Palace, but noone will be let  in,
    except  for  those, who can get their hands on the two eyes of Tarnak.
    These are some magical artefacts which will open the entrance  to  the
    palace.

    So  try to find the eyes of Tarnak and kill him, so that we all can go
    back to our homes.

    Major of Kaldrion


    -[FEATURES]-----------------------------------------------------------

    Trapped 2 - Reincarnation of Demons
    -----------------------------------
    - High-End 3D-Engine with scalable window
    - 17 complex levels
    - about 6000 frames of animation (4096 colors)
    - polygon monsters with 60 animation frames in 2048 rotation angles,
      this means really smooth animation
    - about 550KB of vector objects as fillings and traps
    - complex light system with up to 200 lightsources per dungeon
    - more than 1000 different textures and hundreds of sound effects
    - lots of magic spells, active spells like fireballs, Ice storms, etc
      (shooting options), 6 different Weapons
    - Monsters featuring: fear, group modes, run modes, casting spells.
    - specials effects like: mirrors, lens flares, glows, fire routines.

    System Requirements
    -------------------
    - Processor: min. 68020, 68030/40/60 are supported with optimized code
    - Ram:       min 1MB Chip, 4MB Fast, supports up to 24Mb Fast
    - GFX-Chip:  supported are OCS/ECS (64 col EHB), AGA, Grafitti,
                 GFXBoards (256 cols)
    - Machine:   A500(with 68020 or higher), A1200, A2000(68020 or higher)
                 A3000, A4000



    -[BENCHMARKS]---------------------------------------------------------


    Benchmark
    ---------

    If you want to create a benchmark you need to  start  the  game  once.
    After  you have quit from the game you can start the Trapped2bench.exe
    file, this will calculate a speed benchmark and saves a  file  to  the
    RAM Disk.

