

                         PLAY AND WIN  BIG CASH PRIZES!

                         INTRODUCTION  TO THE NAME-GAME

        The Name-Game is based on a popular type of Skill Word Puzzle Contest
generally sponsored by newspapers.

TANGLED NAME CONTESTS

        Tangled Names Contests, such as Tangle Towns, Tangle Comics, and Bible
Names Game are among the most interesting and rewarding word puzzles that have
been introduced to the American people.

        These contests, which have been sponsored by newspapers throughout the
United States at least since the 1930's, have been used to increase circulation
and gain public goodwill.

        The New York Herald Tribune, the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, and the
Los Angeles Times are among the newspapers that have held such contests.

        There are many reasons why Tangle Towns and similar contests are such
appealing word games.  One is the large rewards:  the 1988 L. A. Times Grand 
Prize was a $50,000 Mercedes Benz plus $25,000 cash!

        I myself have competed in the L. A. Times contest four times.The L. A.
Times sponsors this contest every 3 to 5 years.

        These contests are true "skill" contests.  There is no luck or chance
involved.  Nobody, not even the originator of the contest, knows the best 
solution to the final tie-breaker.

HOW NEWSPAPER TANGLE TOWN CONTESTS ARE RUN

        The object of Tangled Name contests is to make a list of names from 
a set of letters and a source list.  The contest is generally divided into 
three parts:

        1.  The preliminary set of puzzles which consists of approxi-
            mately fifty individual puzzles, each of the same type 
            and having a single solution for each.

        2.  The first set of tiebreakers which consists of approxi-
            mately twenty puzzles similar to the original set.

        3.  The final tiebreaker which consists of a single puzzle
            of a type which is different from the first two.  This
            puzzle has no predetermined top solution- the solution
            with the highest score wins the contest.

        The object of the final tiebreaker is to make a solution list using 
the supplied letter alphabet and source list.  Points are awarded for each
name on the source list.  Additional points are awarded for certain letter 
combinations used within these words.  Penalty points are subtracted for each
letter left over.  A Bonus is awarded in the event that the contestant is able
to use up all the letters provided.

THE NAME-GAME

        The Name-Game is a computerized version of the final tie-breaker.  The
computer will keep track of your Source and Solution lists, the number of
letters used and remaining, and keep a running score.

        The version of the game you have here is a playable version with
several Source files that you may choose to play with.

        Additional features of the program allow you to print copies of your
lists to paper and save your solutions to disk for recall later.

        Gladstone Productions is sponsoring contests using an enhanced contest
version of the Name-Game.  For each contest, a new game disk will be issued
with a new, and different Source File and puzzle alphabet.  The Contest Version
has some additional features:

        1.  The ability to sort either a Solution List or a Source
            List either alphabetically or numerically (highest-
            scoring words go to the top of the list).

        2.  The ability to save a newly sorted file in its sorted
            form.

        3.  A quick-search function that hi-lites a letter or letter
            combination that you request the computer to search for.
	    
        These enhancements speed up play and make a much higher game score easy
to achieve.

PLAY AND WIN BIG CASH PRIZES!

        I invite you to participate in the first-ever Computerized Skill Word
Puzzle Contest: NAME-GAME I.

        At the time of this writing, Sept. 1, 1989, I am not sure how many
people will accept my invitation to play.  I know that most people are not
going to bother.  This is good news for you since it means less competition!  

        If participation is higher than expected, additional and/or bonus
prizes will be announced.  This puzzle offers you an exciting way to get the
good things in life.  Good things you deserve, things that only money can buy!

        You could win $3500.00 (or more)!  And, have lots of fun doing it.  
But remember, to win you have to enter!  So, do yourself a favor today, Join us
in participating in this exciting new contest!  I'd love to sign a big check
with your name on it!

                                       Best wishes for your success,

                                       Mike D. Savin
                                       Contest Director

     P.S.  Do you have any questions?  Please let me know.
           I'll personally respond.
   P.P.S.  See Contest Details for prize and entry information.
           REMEMBER!  EVERYONE WINS:  Prizes will awarded to 
           everyone who enters!
