

                NAME-GAME NUMBER 1 RULES and GENERAL INFORMATION

                     YOU CAN PLAY AND  WIN BIG CASH PRIZES!
 
Dear Fellow Amiga Lover:

     Imagine winning  $3500.00 CASH just for playing this simple, fun game!
If you can solve puzzles like the Name-Game then you have the POWER to win 
CASH by the Bucketful!  Most people won't even try to get their share.  That's
GOOD NEWS FOR YOU!  It means far LESS COMPETITION- and MORE OPPORTUNITY for you
to win a BIG BUNDLE OF CASH!

                          IT'S TIME FOR YOU TO WIN!

     The contest game is essentially an enhanced version of the game you have
here with a different source list.  When you receive the  Contest Disk, your
goal will be to achieve the highest  possible  score  using  the  source list
plus the puzzle alphabet provided.

                       START THE CASH COMING YOUR WAY!

      Remember, you must enter to win!   Mail your entry today!   It's time to
start some BIG MONEY coming to YOUR HOUSE!  YOU CAN WIN $3500.00 CASH!  Even if
you've never won anything before!

                       EVERYONE WHO ENTERS WILL WIN!

      All  contestants  will  receive  disks  from the  Gladstone Gold 
Collection  just for participating  in the  first  Computerized Skill Contest
ever offered!

        Name-GameI is a contest of individual skill and initiative open to 
persons 18 years and older.  No luck or chance is involved.  Employees of  
Gladstone Productions or their families are ineligible.

        This contest consists of one part only:  The game to be played will be
issued on disk to all contestants submitting an entry form and fee prior to the
deadline date of March 1, 1990.  The game will be essentially identical to the
game on this disk, with several enhanced features, a different Source List, and
a different puzzle alphabet set.

        Solutions shall be returned to Gladstone Productions on paper.  The
game disk will allow contestants to print their entries on a printer.  This is 
for contestants convenience: you are not required to have a printer to enter
this contest.  All entries must be neat and readable however.  All entries will
be checked for arithmetical accuracy. 

        There is a one-time only entry fee:

                        PICK YOUR TREASURE CHEST OF CASH!
                             Enter one category only
 
                    ROYAL      NOBLE     KNIGHT    ALL 3 GRAND PRIZES!  
    Entry Fee:       $19        $12        $7              $38
    GRAND PRIZE   $1500.00   $1000.00   $500.00          $3500.00 
        2nd       $ 500.00   $ 300.00   $150.00
        3rd       $ 200.00   $ 120.00   $ 60.00          includes
        4th       $ 100.00   $  60.00   $ 30.00          $ 500.00
        5th       $  50.00   $  30.00   $ 15.00      Free Extra Cash!


                             PLUS! Everyone wins:

     If you enter the Knight category: you get 1 free Gladstone Gold Disk
      If you enter the Noble category: you get 2 free Gladstone Gold Disks
      If you enter the Royal category: you get 3 free Gladstone Gold Disks
    If you enter the 3-GRAND category: you get 6 free Gladstone Gold Disks
 
                        Entry Deadline: Mar 1, 1990

        NOTE: If you enter before Dec. 1, 1989, your entry fee is:

                   ROYAL     NOBLE    KNIGHT   3-GRAND  
                    $16       $10       $6       $31



        The Highest scores win.  In the event of a tie, each tied player will 
receive a prorated portion of the subject prize based on the prize category
he entered.  Contestants playing for all 3 Grand Prizes whose score ranks
between 2nd and 5th will receive their cash prize from the Royal Treasure 
Chest prize category.

        Optional Bonus Prizes may be offered for additional fees.  Contestants
are not required to participate in any bonus prize offer and their regular
prize eligibility shall not be affected by their participation or lack thereof.

        It is not known at this time how many entrants will participate.  The
actual number will be determined and reported to all participants.

        Multiple entries are allowed, but only one prize per household will be
awarded.  Winners will be required to certify that they received help from no
one other than their immediate household.

        All entries will be subject to final confirmation of rank order and
correctness.  Winners are responsible for any taxes due on their winnings.
Gladstone Productions is not responsible for lost, stolen, or delayed mail.

        Contestants agree by their entry to these and any additional rules
that may be imposed to produce a fair outcome to the contest, and that in all
matters, the decision of the contest judges shall be final.  All entries 
become the exclusive property of Gladstone Productions.  No part of the
contest disk may be reproduced for other than the contestant's own use without
written permission.

        Name-Game I concludes and winners should be determined by April 30,
1990.

        A rejudge period will extend for 30 days thereafter.  If no request
for rejudging a contestant's entry is received by end of rejudge period, the
judges' decisions will be final and prizes will be paid.  A Winners List will
be sent upon written request with a SASE.  Winners agree to supply Gladstone
Productions with their color photograph and to allow the use of same and
winner's name for any publication thereof.

                         HAVE FUN--AND BE A WINNER!

                                HOW TO WIN:

      If you have a printer connected, you may print out an entry form from
within the game.

      If you do not use a printer, on a blank sheet of paper, indicate:

                1.  Your name and address.
                2.  The category you wish to enter.
                3.  Whether you wish your prize paid by cash or check.
                4.  Sign the form.

      Be sure to enclose cash, check or money order with your entry.  No 
entries accepted without entry fee!

                MAIL TODAY TO:   GLADSTONE  PRODUCTIONS
                                249 S. Hwy 101 Ste. 567P
                                 Solana Beach, CA 92075

          Save up to $7.00 on your entry fee! Enter before Nov. 1, 1989.

      Permission is granted to freely distribute this game.  All files must be
included with no changes.  This game may be used only by Gladstone Productions
or Mike Savin for contest purposes.  No one else is permitted to use this game
to promote any contest. 
          
                     HIGH-PERFORMANCE  LOW-COST SOFTWARE!
             Send $5 (refundable) for our unique CATALOG-ON-DISK

The Name-Game
Copyright, 1989 Mike D. Savin and Gladstone Productions: all rights reserved.

