                        DRAKKHEN MAP KEY

BY ???  Edited by PARASITE.


The red ellipses are the eight castles, which are specified according to
the key at the end of this file.

The red boxes are houses, tents, and igloos.  Typically you will recieve
hints from th occupants of the same.  They are also a good place for a
low-level party to spend the mid-nights when attacks from the
constellations are most frequent.

The red boxes with a cross inside represent the temples where healing is
available.  The temple in the desert is especially important.  It is the
"hermit of the sands", who dishes out clues in the form of riddles.

The little crosses are graveyards.  Anyone who disturbs these deserves
what he gets. (I learned after the first time).

The extremely small crosses at the north end of roadways are teleporters.
They exist in matched pairs.  The two in the green areas will transfer
between themselves, as do the two in the swamp area. The one teleporter in
the ice plains will send you to the far south-east one in the desert, but
either desert teleporter will send you to the ice plains.

The two white lines that run north-south between the Prince and Princess
of Earth's castles is a double row of north-pointing arows, whos function
I've not yet ascertained.  The wise traveller does not cross this. (Same
deal as graves.  It only takes once.)

The numbers are:
1:  Prince of Earth (Hordthken) castle.  You should go here first.
2:  Princess of Earth (Hordthka) castle.
3:  Prince of Water (Haaggkhen) castle.
4:  Prince of Air (Naakhtkhen) castle.
5:  Princess of Air (Naakhtka) castle.
6:  Princess of Water (Haaggkha) castle.
7:  Princess of Fire (Hazhulkha) castle.
8:  Prince of Fire (Hazhulkhen) castle.
9:  Weapon shop.  You NEED to go here if you wanna live!
10: Temple of Redemption.
11: Tavern.  Trade hints for Jade (only use I've found for it).


Note:  This was written before completeing that game.  Some information
may be incomplete or just plain wrong.  There are little guys that you
will meet at various places on the roads.  Thier locations are not
indicated in any way. They will give you hints for free (if you can
understand them, that is).

End.
