                                HARMONY

Typed by PARANOIMIA.  Edited by PARASITE.


WHY HARMONY?
Webster's Collegiate Dictionary sums up the experience of The Game of
Harmony as well as anything:
   har-mo-ny \'har-m -ne\ n 1: musically concordant, tuneful 2: pleasing
   or congruent arrangement of parts 3: internal calm: TRANQUILITY

Imagine: Soothing music.  Liquid sounds.  Colorful, pleasing patterns.
All part of a game that actually rewards you for staying calm.

BUT WHY A GAME LIKE THE GAME OF HARMONY?
Simple answer: Like you, we work hard.  And we just got weary of coming
home to software "entertainment" that drives us nuts with tension.  Zap
this, blow up that - enough already.  How about a challenge that
demands total relaxation for optimal performance?  A game that's more
like a meditation than a rabid exercise in intergalactic gunplay?

Who knows?  The Game of Harmony just might usher in a whole New Age in
software entertainment.

Happy harmonizing.

HOW TO CONFIGURE YOUR GAME
The Game of Harmony will flip through a title screen, a High Scores
Screen, then a brief series of Demo Screens with basic instructions.
To move on to the Configuration Screen, press the fire button or space
bar.  The following options will appear.

To move up and down the options, use the Z or W keys.  To toggle between
sub-options, use the A or S keys.  After you choose your options, press
the space bar to activate your configuration.

CONFIGURATION SCREEN

OPTIONS         SUB-OPTIONS    COMMENTS
Mode            Normal         Choose the demo
                Mantra         mode here and you
                Demo           get the game sounds
                               instead of the theme
                               song.
Players         One
                Two

P1 Controller   Keyboard       Input device for Player 1
                Joystick

P2 Controller   Keyboard      Input device for Player 2
                Joystick

Control Mode    Alternative   See Controlling the Seeker
                              for explanations.
                Normal

Rotation Speed  Slow          The slow speed is more
                Fast          precise.

UTILITY CONTROLS
D               Save Game (at any point)

R               Restore the Saved Game (in any game level)

P               Pause/Unpause

F9              Sound On/Off

ESC             Quit current game & return to Main Menu

Note: One game can be saved/restored in either Mantra or Competitive
Modes.

HOW TO PLAY
The game is simplicity itself.  You control THE SEEKER (a hovering
sphericule with a pointer inside) adrift in a world of colorful,
melodious puzzles.  Each puzzle is a configuration of different-
colored orbs that pulsate with raw, undirected energy.

Your goal: Create synergy (united, directed energy) by pushing together
all same-colored pairs of spheres before they explode with tension.
This "harmonizes" the configuration and lets you move on to the next
puzzle.

There are 50 configurations, 50 unique "problems" to be solved.  You
can work with or without a time limit, with or without a partner.

Here are your secrets to success:  Precision, elegance, grace, calm,
clarity.

CONTROLLING THE SEEKER
The Game of Harmony can be played with either a keyboard or a joystick.
Once you've reached the Configuration Screen, you can choose between
two (2) different ways to control the movement of your Seeker.

To scroll through options on the Configuration Screen, use the normal
keyboard controls for Player One.  (For joystick, use the normal
joystick controls for Player One.)

CONTROLLING THE SEEKER

            CONTROLS                           MOVEMENT MODE

Players 1&2  Player 1   Player 2

Joysticks    Keyboard   Keypad  C64     Normal         Alternative
Up           W          8       I       N/A            forward
Down         Z          2       M       flip 180       brake/stop
Left         A          4       J       rotate left    same
Right        S          6       K       rotate right   same
Fire button  Space Bar  0       Return  forward        flip 180

GAME MODES
To scroll between the three modes on the Configuration Screen, use the A
or S keys.

Mantra Mode.  Other games call this Practice Mode.  But unlike other
games. The Game of Harmony gives you access to every level of play in
this anxiety-free state.  No time limits, no restrictions.  Float
through all 50 configurations at your leisure.  (You may never want to
leave this mode.  Ever.)

Normal Mode.  For the more competitive, goal-oriented seeker of harmony,
we have a time limit for solving each configuration.  (For details, see
Energy Spheres below.)

Demo Mode.  When you select this mode, you get a full demonstration of
the game, including game sounds.

THE TWO PLAYER GAMES
Both the Mantra and Normal Modes feature a unique two-player option, which
we like to call Harmonic Convergence.  Each player controls his own
Seeker on the same screen.  But there is no competition.  Instead,
players must cooperate to "harmonize" each configuration.

To set up the two-player option, choose Two under the Players option
on the Game Configuration Screen, then select controllers for each
player.

ENERGY SPHERES
The Game of Harmony gives you 50 different puzzles to solve.  Each one
features different configurations of colored orbs, called Energy Spheres,
and barriers.  Each puzzle challenges you to use your mobile Seeker to
knock together Energy Spheres of the same color, thus creating Synergy
(measured in points).

Whenever you unify two like-colored spheres, they heave a grateful,
musical sigh... then dissipate into a state of blissful synergy.  Hey,
you can't help but feel good about yourself.

PULSE TIME
But of course, raw Energy Spheres won't wait forever.  If they are not
united, they grow tense - and begin to pulsate faster and faster, until
they explode with tension.

This "pulse time" is your time limit for each level, because when all
spheres have exploded, the round is over.  (In Mantra Mode, however,
orbs don't pulsate.)

Spheres explode anywhere from 10 to 30 seconds after they appear.
"Pulse time" is always the same for all spheres within a given level,
but it is different from level to level.

PODS
Whenever two different-colored Energy Spheres collide, they generate a
Pod of yet a third color.  For about 3 seconds, that pod will sit
there.  During this time, you can "gobble" (run over) it with your
Seeker, make it disappear, and gain energy.

After 3 seconds, however, it will grow into another Energy Sphere.
Obviously, if you let too many of these pods generate, your puzzle
will begin to take somewhat unharmonious characteristics.

LIVES & ENERGY
You start The Game of Harmony with four lives.  The number of lives
you have left is marked on the upper right of the game screen.

The Energy Bar runs across the top of the game screen.  Every time you
consume a pod, you gain energy.  Every time an Energy Sphere explodes,
you lose energy.  If you let your energy level dwindle to nothing, you
lose a life.

SCORING
Every time you "synergize" (knock together) Energy Spheres of the same
color, you are awarded points.  The amount of points is either 200, 250,
or 300 points depending on the level you are playing.  Your score is
shown in the upper left of the game screen.

You can also get Bonus Points.  Every time you "harmonize" a level -
that is, make all spheres disappear - without creating any new pods
you earn an extra 1500 Bonus Points.  If you harmonize a level,
including any newly-created pods, you get 1000 Bonus Points.  If there
is only one sphere or one pair of spheres left, you earn 500 Bonus
Points.  More than one pair of spheres left earns you zero (0) Bonus Points.

Oh, did we mention Bonus Lives?  After every 20,000 points, you earn an
additional life.  Sort of a new slant on reincarnation.

BONUS LEVELS
Level 4 and every fourth level thereafter (Levels 8, 12, 16, etc) are
designated bonus levels.  In them, you can gain extra points, but
cannot lose any of the points/energy you already have.

Each bonus level presents an arrangement of Pods that can be gobbled
for points.  Each bonus level is different, with different instructions.
READ THE ON-SCREEN INSTRUCTIONS FOR THESE LEVELS CAREFULLY.

THE RANDOM BONUS POD
OK, you're in a configuration, seeking away, surrounded by spheres,
when suddenly a random pod appears.  Out of nowhere.  Just sitting
there.  What is it?

It's a Random Bonus Pod, is what it is.

Gobble (run over) it quickly, before it goes away.  Because if you do,
The Game of Harmony will bestow you with the ability to dissolve
anything on that level.

HINTS
1  Relax.  We've said it before, and we'll say it again.  The calmer
   you stay, the better you'll do.  When you're seeking harmony,
   tension always breeds bad performance.

2  Try both Movement Control Modes.  See which is most harmonious for
   you.

3  Seek the "elegant" solution.  Each configuration can be harmonized
   in an infinite variety of ways.  However, there is an optimal pattern
   for every level.  Here's an example:

LEVEL 1
1  Move the Seeker so that it bounces off the wall and strikes the
   first orange sphere.

2  Move the Seeker so that it strikes the first blue sphere.  They will
   dissolve.

End.
