                                SPACE EMPIRE

Edited by PARASITE.

NOTE: This is a BBS on-line game!


I. Introduction
        The object of Space Empire is simple.  You are the absolute
ruler of a set of worlds.  Your goal is to be the most powerful empire
through diplomacy, economic ploys, and most of all, war.  The first
person to be "Space Lord" for seven days in a row ascends the iridium
throne of the galaxy and becomes Lord of the Universe.  To be Space Lord,
you must have at least 100,000 points and be the highest scorer if there
is more than one empire with 100,000 points.

II. Running Your Empire
        At the beginning of each turn, you collect money in the form of
taxes from your people and ore mined from planets.  You also get a stock
of food from agricultural worlds and a flow of weaponry from defense
planets.  Your governing planets, which are purely administrative worlds,
don't do you any good and just sap your funds -- but you need one of them
for every 25 other planets.

        After collecting this money, you are allowed to budget your money
as you see fit.  Certain amounts will be requested which you are advised
to stay close to.  Your people will also require food -- make sure you
either buy enough food each round or have enough agricultural worlds to
support your people!

        When you are done feeding your worlds you can use the Galactic
bank for a savings account at a 5% interest rate.  This interest rate
gains interest on every game day ... not game round!

        Soon, you'll be able to buy extra things, including more weaponry,
planets, etc.  Spend wisely.  Don't use up all your money, or buy things
which could sap all your money away in the future.

        You must keep your populace happy!  Abusing them by not giving
them enough food and not allocating enough money to your planets will
stir up unrest.  There are many factors which modify how happy your
people are.  Make sure you learn these and keep them that way.  Internal
unrest is worse than the most powerful of enemy armies!

HINTS:  People by nature are happier when they are well fed.  The food
levels suggested by the program are the MINIMUM levels required to keep
them at their present status.  Same with money needed for the planets the
suggested amount is the minimum required to maintain the Status QUO.

To build planets and defenses effectively during your first rounds in the
game. Start off by buying NOTHING BUT ORE PLANETS for the first ten turns on
turn one you should buy all ore planets except for about 2 or three
agricultural planets always keep the agricultural planets producing more
than the minimum required of food.  Planet costs start to esculate rapidly
but ore planets are the best investment.  Each planet requires 10K credits
to maintain and each governing planet requires 20K credits each. Since ORE
planets produce 20K credits of income you profit 10K credits for every ORE
planet you have.  KEEP the levels of governing planets up to the minimum of
1 gov planet for every 25 plus fraction thereof of the other planets.  Lack
government representation is extremely bad for your people.

After round ten or fifteen start buying Defense Planets but make sure
that for every defense or agricultural planet you buy you alway buy at least
one ore planet to support it.  (Two ore planet to support the governing
planets.)

III. Battle
        Battle is an integral part of the game -- this is how you
weaken your enemies and sieze planets from them.  The victor in battle
depends on many factors.

        Each unit of battle force works a little differently.  Soldiers
are the base unit of your military -- they have the weakest firepower in
battle, but you need them to back up all your other forces.  If you don't
back up your other weaponry with troops of soldiers, you are surely
doomed.  Fighter craft are offense only weapons, and are about twice as
effective as soldiers when attacking.  The cost a little more, and for
every 100 fighters you have, you need a carrier to transport them.  Defense
stations cost about the same as fighters, and are defense only.  Cruisers
are both offensive and defensive, have more firepower than either fighters
or cruisers, but cost about twice as much.

        The morale of your military is a very important factor.  If you
continuously lose battles, their morale will go down.  It will go up if
you win battles and allocate them extra money.  It is also changed by
various other factors.  For instance, domestic unrest tends to demoralize
your army.

        There is always an element of chance.  A lesser enemy always has
a slight chance of winning a battle if the two battle forces are close
enough in size.

        If the attacking battle force emerges the victor, he will gain
10% of his enemy's planets (rounded up).  His enemy will be wiped out of the
game if you take all of his planets.  This is one of the greatest moral
boosters your army can get.

        New players are protected from being attacked for a period of
20 turns, unless they attack someone else first (note 20 turns ends at
the beginning of turn 21.)  If you fail to logon to the game for 7 days
you will lose your protection and made open game for the rest of the players.
This is done to benefit those who are actively playing the game and to
clear room for other players to join the game.

HINTS:  The best way to attack is to spy on the player you are about to
attack if they are not part of an alliance send slightly more of troops,
fighters (against defense stations), and heavy cruisers than your opponent
has.  If he has an alliance send your best guess or what you think his
allaince has to support in addition to the normal required forces.
Note:
In previous versions the full force of an alliance's help could not be
felt due to a major coding error on the part of the original programmer.
Starting in Version 1.5 the alliances now work to benefit those in the
allaince.  Previously the more people you had in the allaince the less
alliance support you got.  I have fixed this do that you always get the
full defense support of your alliance force that YOU own and 50% support
from all remaining forces.  If in doubt as to what you current allied force
leves are just select Info option in the allaince Menu.

IV.  TIPs, Tricks & Other features
        Troops, defense stations, and heavy cruisers that are stock piled
in the alliance cost you half of normal to maintain how ever they are
not counted as part of your personal wealth when point tallying time comes
so while you can bank forces in the alliance they don't count toward your
score while they are there. Using the restock option allows you to use
the alliance like an armament bank.  It returns all the forces you
contributed to you for you to redistribute back to the alliance or keep.

         Planets are taken from your enemy evenly from each of his types
of planets so trying to take all of one type of his planets is useless
unless you really want that type of planet yourself. i.e. player A has 4-ORE,
2-AGRI, 1-Governing, and 5-Defense. Player B defeates Player A and gets
4 planets. Player B takes 4 ORE planets leaving player A with 3-ORE,
1-AGRI, 0-Governing, 4-Defense.

Take advantage of your alliance's defense capabilities and communicate with
your alliance's members.  The alliance section was repaired and works like
a champ now.

Alliance defenses operate like this:

Player A has 1000 troops, 1000 defense stations, and 1000 heavy cruisers in
his alliance of one.

Player A is given the additional protection then of 100% of the total
alliance forces combined with his non-alliance forces for DEFENSE only.

Player B joins the alliance and is immediately covered by the defensive
power of player A's contributed forces.  Player B decides to add 500 troops,
500 Defense stations and 500 cruisers.  Now Player B not only has the power
of his contributed forces but still 50% of player A's contributed forces,
giving him a total protection of 1000 troops, 1000 DS, and 1000 HC.
Player A on the othere hand has the total defesive power now of his original
contributed Forces (CF) but also 50% of the power of player B's cf's, for
a total defensive power of 1250 troops, 1250 DS, and 1250 HC.  As you can
see the more you contribute the better protected all players can be.

This was a major change from the way the alliance used to work which
actually made it detrimental to ally with anyone but your self.  Now at
least there is some benefit to having an Alliance with someone else.  Forces
lost during a battle are taken off poportionately from the areas that
supplied them.  In this manner every one shares the benefit and the loss.

The alliance also has a bank now.  Every member can deposit or take out
money from a common account.  This can be helpful when a player gets on
the needy side.

End.
