                THE HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER - ARCADE GAME!

Typed by MR.THOMPSON of DEFJAM.  Edited by PARASITE.


COMMANDERS BRIEFING : YOUR MISSION
Silently, beneath the chilly Atlantic waters Russia's top secret nuclear
missile submarine the RED OCTOBER is heading West....
RED OCTOBER is armed with 26 SS-N-20 Seahawk missiles capable of
destroying 200 cities and is the pride of the Soviet navy. As the most
senior of Russian Submarine Commanders you are ordered to test the latest
in Soviet naval technology - a submarine so powerful and so quiet, with
its unique and revolutionary caterpillar drive system, that it is almost
impossible to detect.
Your hand picked officers are totally loyal and will risk their lives for
you, but the enlisted crew know nothing about your mission...TO DEFECT.
The US Navy is unsure of your real intentions but is convinced by Jack
Ryan, senior intelligence official at the CIA, that your defection is true.
Unfortunately the Soviet Red Banner Fleet one of the most powerful fleet in
the world has orders to pursue and destroy you - AT ANY COST.
In this deadly battle of survival you must successfully complete five
levels of action -

LEVEL 1
You must deliver Jack Ryan on to the USS Dallas Submarine in mid-Atlantic.
The weather is bad; Jack hates flying; gale force winds and low fuel brings
increased danger to Jack. One false move and Jack is dead and the mission
aborted!.

LEVEL 2
Navigate the treacherous Reykjanes ridge, one of the key ridges in Red
Route One. You will need to navigate through deep and narrow channels;
avoid heat seeking automatic guided missiles and mines and remain
undetected.

LEVEL 3
Successfully guide Jack Ryan to rendezvous with the Red October from a
mini-sub where great precision and skill is essential.

LEVEL 4
Face the final (or so you think) confrontation with the Soviet Red Banner
Fleet. The full force of their Navy confronts you - homing missiles, depth
charges and totally dedicated submarine commanders in pursuit. YOU WILL BE
STOPPED....

LEVEL 5
Finally you have succeeded - or have you? Await the ultimate challenge! Can
you and the precious RED OCTOBER survive?

REMEMBER, you have some very special and powerful weapons; you also have
the unique, nearly undetectable caterpillar drive system and the advantage
of stealth. Use them all carefully and you might suvive.

The Americans want the RED OCTOBER.  The Russians want her back.
The most incredible chase in history begins.  THE HUNT IS ON!

CONTROLS
The joystick is used to control all versions including the IBM/PC where
fitted.
In addition, keyboard controls can be used and are user definable.  Please
define keys before playing.  AMIGA users may choose to use mouse on Level 5
for greater accuracy (Press M).

NOTE - BONUS AWARDS (LEVEL 2 & 4)
(E) - Energy    (ST) - Super Torpedoes     (I) - Limited Invincibility
(P) - Points     (S) - Smart Bombs         (D) - Extra Life

End.
