Short: AGA/ECS Wrestling Game playable demo Requires 3M or more of free RAM

Recent: v0.01 is the only release

from uzun@crash.cts.com (Roger Uzun)

You must keep the joystick button depressed to hold
onto a move, releasing the joystick button releases the hold.
To avoid a pin or escape a hold  Wiggle the joystick

DEMO PGM ONLY NOT A COMPLETE GAME

(I also have an older, much older complete wrestling
 game I am considering uploading as freeware this is a much
newer program than Wrstlgm.lha, the older complete game
They are NOT the same program/game in any way)

For max performance on AGA machines, run it in
HIRES mode (edit the wb icon or run from CLI
with HIRES arg), with MODE PROMOTION OFF.

HD Installable, requires lh.library in libs:
directory!!

FULLY system 3.X compatible, runs on system 1.3 or higher.
Multitasks well, use Control Q to quit game early.
Use <ESC> to pause the game.
Enforcer/Mungwall/memleak clean

Program REQUIRES 3M of RAM or MORE must be FREE RAM, not
in use by system

Program will require an NTSC or DBLNTSC screen with versions
39 or later of AmigaDOS (3.0 or later)

Default screen is 320X200XEHB (64 colors) which scrolls
on a 640X400 ring area.

Use Joystick in joystick port for 1 player
Use 2 joysticks for 2 player

Startup Options:

? displays startup options for CLI args or TOOLTYPES

HIRES : Pgm will use a 640X400X64 color screen on AGA machines,
        non scrolling.

NOBOBS : Inhibits use of BOBS as scoring/energy ICONS

020 : Forces 68020 mem type moves on 040 class machines
      Default is to use Move16 on 040 machines

000 : Forces 68000 type mem moves on any machine

OneMeg and TwoMeg : DO NOT USE THESE OPTIONS

1 : Forces one player game

2 : Forces 2 player game (2 joysticks required)

af : to control the african wrestler on 1 player games.

=====basic controls====

walking is obvious...push a button to grapple with
your opponent, once it grapple wiggle joystick to get
an advantage and put him in a headlock, wiggle joystick
to escape/avoid a pin.

Once opponent is in headlock wiggle joystick to get
incentive and SLAM him.  Once on the ground push button
down and move joystick to opponent to cover him for the pin.

You MUST keep the button down to keep hold of a move, letting
up on the button releases your opponent.