
Did you really read this one first?  Oh well, I will have to take your
word for it!
 
This archive should contain the following:
 
MyStory				A story on why I did what I did
HowTo				The actual nuts and bolts stuff
FMSDIS.Lzh			The archive of FMS
ReadMe1st			This file, which you should have read first

This entire archive is freely redistributable as long these files are kept
in their unmodified forms.

What you CAN do with this stuff:
------------------------------- 
* Hopefully install CSB on your hard drive, drastically reducing the time
you spend thinking nasty thoughts about companies that don't have hard 
drive installability in their software.

* If you are slick you can figure out a way to install it to RAD: if
you have enough memory.

* Upload to another BBS for easy credits.

* Get FMS, which is worth more all of the other crap in this archive.

What you CAN NOT do with this stuff:
-----------------------------------
* Bypass the copy protection of FTL.  You still need the Master Disk, and
the copy protection is fully intact.

* Redistribute this archive in a modified from.

ALERT!ALERT!ALERT!ALERT!
-----------------------
Before executing the hard drive startup, the Master Disk must be in
DF0:, if not it won't work. You must have the Master Disk in DF0: before
mounting FF0:, else it will load from floppy. Blech.

UNALERT!UNALERT!UNALERT!
-----------------------

Thanks to the following:
 
FTL for Dungeon Master and Chaos Strikes Back, which I feel are the best
    computer games, ever produced, under any platform.
Drew Vogel for The Cafe' BBS and everything else.
Computer Mania for carrying Amiga Software and Magazines.
Expert Services for dedicated Amiga support.
Paul Wehner my partner in crime.
Chuck Baker for Hellfire Club BBS.
Sysop of Amy's Warehouse for an excellent and stable BBS.
Chris Erickson for... well, you know Chris!
The author of FMS.  You didn't identify yourself or say anything, so I 
    am assuming that it is freely redistributable.

See 'HowTo' for information on how to reach me.
