
RRRRR         AAA        GGGGG       $$$$$
R    R       A   A      G     G     $     $
R   R       A     A    G            $
RRRR        AAAAAAA    G   GGGG      $$$$$
R   R       A     A    G      G           $ 
R    R      A     A     G     G     $     $
R    R      A     A      GGGGG       $$$$$

version 0.6beta
 
© 2001 Shades Productions, all rights reserved



Please do also read the text legal.README



0. Introduction :


The development of this game started in 1995. (no Joke)
At this time it was actually meant to be a full price
game. Later on we thought it could still be sold as a
low-price game, until we finally agreed to release it
as PD :-).
When in 1996 all of us where studying (Computer Science
and Arts respectiveley), it would seem, that this game
was never to be released. Some of You might have heard
or even experienced that before.
About a week ago, when Sascha, our artist came to visit
us from Hamburg (where he moved to due to his studies), we 
were talking about something like "the good old days"
and decided, that it was kind of our duty to finish our
game. And so we did.... quick and dirty !!

Note that some of the missing graphics were drawn by the 
coders (such as the hand in the menu), so don´t shoot the
artist !!!!!

This is the first and most probably last version of this
game (hey, we don´t get paid for it, so why bother ?)


1. Technical stuff


1.1 System requirements

AGA, mc68020+ , ~4mB HD space

Some fast RAM might be helpful but is actually not required


1.2 Installation 

Easy, unpack the archive into a directory of your choice.
(Directory structure must be maintained)


1.3 Starting the game

The game must be started from the Workbech.
Double-click the RAGS icon.
Don´t try anything else !!!!!!!!!!!!!!

2. About the Game 


2.1 The Concept

Rags is a 1 on 1 combat game inspired by the final part of
the C64 Game "Beach Head 2". 
Although we put a lot of effort into programming a computer 
opponent that can be taken serious, the game is much more 
fun when played against a friend.



2.2 The Menu

This is actually rather self explaining. Use joystick in the 
2nd port to select/deselect options (such as number of players 
and difficulty). Select "Start game" to, well guess what ......


2.3 The main game

2.3.1 Plot

The game takes place in four different arenas (we could only
complete 4 levels). Each player (or the computer respective-
ly) controls a modern gladiator, participing in the future 
game called "RAGS". The plot is rather simple :

Kill Your opponent before he kills You ......


2.3.2 How to Play

Move Your gladitor around with the joystick (duh?)

Press the joystick button to fire Your weapon (really?)


You can crouch by pressing the button and pushing the
stick to the reverse direction You´re currently facing.
(e.g. when facing southwest push to the northeast.)

While pressing the button You can slightly change the flying 
angle of knifes and rockets by pushing the stick into the 
apropriate  direction (relative to the direction Your 
gladiator is facing).

You can keep pressing the button and Your gladiator will fire
continously.

Hitting Your opponent with a weapon drains his life (shown
by the bar in the lower left/right of the screen). When the
life of a gladiator reaches zero he dies (simple huh ?)


2.3.3 The weapons

There are 3 kinds of weapons :


Knifes : (the initial weapon)

Speed   : slow
Ammo    : unlimited
Damage  : low

Rockets : 

Speed	: fast
Ammo	: limited
Damage	: high/fatal (direct hit kills opponent immediately)

Minigun :

Speed	: ultra - fast
Ammo	: plenty
Damage  : low

The firing angle of the minigun cannot be modified.



2.3.4 Extras


During the game, extras appear randomly in the arena. These
can be picked up :


Sphere  : Increases the gladiotors rate of fire.

Ice     : Freezes Your opponent for a short time.

Medikit : Restores the gladiators life.

Rocket  : Gives the gladiator the rocket weapon.

Minigun : Gives the gladiator the minigun


2.3.5 Storeys

Each arena has several storeys. These can be reached by
doors/ladders ect.
You can always hit Your opponent when he´s standing at a 
lower storey. Hitting Your opponent from a lower storey
is very difficult.


2.3.6 Traps

Some arenas have traps such as grinders, spikes, acid pits
and fire geysers...
Stepping into a trap kills You immediately.


2.3.7 Probes

Once you have managed to survive all four arenas, another
hazard is added: the probes. The probes try to approach your
position all the time. Never let them close in on you,
otherwise you get teared into pieces instantly. (fatal)


2.3.8 Hidden secrets

Secrets: none. (Oooh!) Unless you detect a very strange bug
teleporting you to another level or making you invincible...
In that case please report us!

2.3.9 Known Bugs

There are no bugs, just features !!!! :-)


3. The Team

3.1 Credits

Shades Productions is formed by :


Sascha Jungnickel : art
Boris Bauer       : code, music, leveldesign, MTAT
Tilman Mehler	  : code, leveldesign, MTAT

MTAT := "many tiny annoying things"  ;-)



Thanks must go to :

Florian Villinger for lending us his voice for the 
death scream sample.

Andreas Fisher for inspirations and the documentation
of the Bresenham Algorithm.

Commodore, Escom, Viscorp .... for f***in up Amiga ....


3.2 Contact


We´re actually interested, if anyone will ever play
our game, since now it is obvious even to us, that
the Amiga is as dead as a computer can be .....

Therefor any feedback would be appreciated.

For any criticis, worshiping, or whatever :

e-mail :

kanedatakeshi@gmx.de   <Boris Bauer>

mehler@informatik.uni-freiburg.de <Tilman Mehler>


sincerely,

Shades Productions

Saturday, 6th 2001
