This material was downloaded from People Link.  Below is a copy of the
information from the People Link Amiga Zone library area:

-Fred  ><>
 31-Dec-90

LIB> 26079
-----
AMIGA ZONE                 Sec:  10
Name : HOLLYWOOD-TRIV.LZH    Num: 26,079
By:   CBM*HARV   Date: 12/24/90 16:51
Bytes:    147,072    Downloads:   23
Binary!
Title:    HOLLYWOOD TRIVIA GAME
Keywords: HOLLYWOOD TRIVIA GAME STAR TREK M*A*S*H TELEVISION MUSIC ETC. MOUSE
-----

Hollywood Trivia is being released as Shareware, please feel free to upload
it to any BBS.  However, your archive must contain all of the original
files, including this one.  Hollywood Trivia is copyrighted and may not be
sold for a profit (except the normal disk copying fee).
If you play Hollywood Trivia and like it (I hope, I hope), please send a
$5.00 shareware donation to

   Town Crier Publications
   12214 - 94th Pl. N.E.
   Kirkland, Wa.  98034

This is easy.  Once you have decompressed the archive you should have two
directories (Pictures and Text) and three files (HollywoodTrivia,
HollywoodTrivia.info and ReadMe).  Copy these files and directories onto
a freshly formated disk and you're ready to go.

HollywoodTrivia is a very easy game to play, simply double click on the
icon and follow the prompts.  After the opening screen is displayed click
the left mouse button to continue.  Once the game screen has scrolled open,
go to the subject menu and choose a topic.  Each topic contains fifty
questions and a related picture.  After a few seconds of disk access the
first question will appear, along with four possible answers.  Now just
click on the gadget next to the answer you want.  Every time you answer a
question right you will be shown a small portion of the picture in the
blue graphics box.  Once you have answered all fifty questions the entire
picture will be displayed and you will be asked to choose another subject.
There are eight subjects containing a total of 400 questions.

Notes: Subjects here include M*A*S*H, general Television trivia, old
and new Star Trek, Indiana Jones, and many others.  This game is
similar to those arcade trivia games you may have played in movie theater
lobbies. Nicely done.
