ZOMBI:

        If you have seen Dawn of the Dead, you already have a good idea on
        how to solve most of the puzzles.  But here's some extra tips
        anyway:

        1.  To lock up the mall to keep zombies from getting in, you need to
            park the trucks over the entrances.  Get the key from the office
            on the 2nd floor and go to the 4th floor where the keys to the
            trucks are kept.

        2.  To keep the dead zombies from coming to un-life, lock them up in
            the freezer in the basement.

        3.  Before you can go play in the basement, you need a source of
            light.  Get the fuses and gloves from the 3rd floor and go to
            it!



                                SOLUTION:


  First get Alex to drop the helicopter keys by the heicopter, there's no
  point in carrying them around with you and it will enable you to carry one
  more usefull object.

  Choose one of the characters and go down to the security room on the secon
  floor, pick up the set of keys and make your way to the list, don't bother
  getting any weapons and don't stop to kill any zombies.

  Use the keys and now you will be able to go up to the fourth floor ( drop
  the keys in the lift, you don't need them anymore ). Leave the lift and yo
  will now be in the main control room, and here you will find three differe
  keys on the floor, each one of the three will start one of the lorries,
  enabling you to move them.

  Via the lift now make your way back down to first floor and go to each of
  the lorries and using the keys move them infront of the various entrances
  to the shopping centre. The only problem is now that your character will
  not be able to get back inside. Choose another one of characters and send
  them down to the sports shop on the third floor, get the rope, and then go
  to the balcony above the front entrance on level two, use the rope and you
  other character will climb up and onto the balcony away from danger.
  Get one of your characters to get the fuse, the rubber glove and a gun, an
  make another character to get the torch, take them in the lift to the
  basement and get the person with the torch to use it so when you exit the
  lift you'll be able to see where you are.

  Both go round to the fusebox and after you've disposed of any zombies get
  the character with the rubber glove to use it and insert the fuse into the
  fuse box. Now using yet another character go to the forth floor and press
  the buttons on the computer to activate the lights in the basement.
  This is where operation zombi kill starts. Get one of the characters to go
  round each of the levels destroying all zombies he meets and then stick
  all the zombies in the cold store ( if you use the tape from the video sho
  with the TV and video in the rental shop you'll see that you have to shoot
  the zombies in the head to kill them). If you now go down to the main
  entrance you will see that some thugs have moved the lorry and have made
  their way inside.

  Gettinfg the fuel can (level three), a gun (level two), and the hose pipe
  (level one) go outside and go to the right. Soon you will come across a
  van belonging to the thugs, shoot any thugs that are by the van, and then
  drop the fuel can in front of it. Now use the hose pipe and, viola!
  You now have the precious fuel you need to fly away in the helicopter.
  Get everybody inside the helicopter and start it up with key (remember whe
  you left it) and the game is completed.

