

THE FULL VERSION OF TOTAL DOMINATION IS AVAILABLE FROM 

F1 LICENCEWARE
31, Wellington Rd
Exeter
Devon
EX2-9DU
England

Tel: (44)01392-493580
E-Mail: steve@F1LW.demon.co.uk


Price: £4.99 (2 disks) +75p p+p

Access/Visa/Mastercard/Eurocard credit card orders accepted.
If paying by cheque please make cheque payable to 'F1 Licenceware'
Cheques MUST be in sterling AND drawn on a UK bank.


Please contact F1 for a free catalogue disk of around 150 exclusive, high
quality Amiga programs.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------



                           TOTAL DOMINATION

                               Chapter 2

                              The Manual

Thank you for purchasing the second instalment of Total Domination, 
this part is by far much large than the first.

                                Setting

The Earth has died, mankind had no choice but to leave it. After 
travelling for 37 years into deep space, UK arks malfunctioned and the
nation was awoken. They had been stranded in an Asteroid Belt, but 
some one else was after it as well, another nation that had the same 
problem, UK must claim the belt, something must be done.

                            Starting A Game

TD2 has two versions, a one player training and two player conflict. 
The one player training missions give you a set goal to complete, but 
the two player game involves you taking control of everything.

                               Beginning

Once the game has started it is your first priority to populate your 
first asteroid, this can easily be done by clicking on the ENTER 
button and then selecting an asteroid that you own to go to. Moments 
later an isometric version of the asteroid is displayed, at the 
beginning of the game this will be very empty. It is worth noting that
no two asteroids are the same. In order to build simply click on the 
BUILD button.

This will display an overhead construction view of your asteroid, 
along the bottom of the screen  a series of buildings will be 
displayed, clicking on one of these will show you an isometric view of
it, the price and what it is.

Once you have decided what you would like to build, and you have 
enough money, simply click on the space you would like it on your map,
the funds will be deducted and the building icon will be placed on the
map.

To leave the building screen click the right mouse button, this will 
return you to the isometric screen, you will notice that your 
buildings are being shown as construction rigs, buildings are not 
built straight away. Plus you can only perform a certain number of 
tasks per turn, one per man.

                             The buildings

At the start of the game a small amount of buildings are available, 
these are:

Command Centre - With out this you cannot use the buildings you make

Store          - Allows small amounts of minerals to be stored
                 with out it you wont be able to store food and water

Residential    - Housing for your settlers is essential, without it
                 you cannot add more to your camp, at the start of the
                 game you have 10 men, without a home, they will start
                 to die if you don't do anything

Power Pilon    - Produces electricity to power your buildings

Hydraponics    - Creates water, food and oxygen for your camp

There are many other types of building in the game but telling you 
will give away some of the secrets.

However as a general rule, if you want to use a type of building you 
have, then goto the isometric map and if the building has a function 
you can use a button will be displayed at the bottom.

Buildings such as mines, do not need survailence and will collect 
resources independently, to view the resources you have press I on the
isometric screen.

                             Making Money

Ok its all very well building things, but when your money runs out 
you've had it. Every now an then a transporter will arrive at your 
camps, this has on board the facility to Buy and Sell stock, if you 
have mined a load of resources then it is a good idea to sell un- 
needed stock so you can build that needed residential tower or 
whatever.

Its not just a matter of building things that spends money, buying new
technology is also very expensive, but if you want to wipe out your 
opponent then you will have to.

                            The Transporter

The transporter is accessed via the asteroid Field map and gives you a
link to its computer.

Various options are available:

Buy Stock               -       Covered above
Sell Stock              -       Covered above
Buildings               -  \
Missiles                -   |-  These three allow the purchasing of 
Crafts                  -  /    new buildings,missiles and space craft

                           Buying Technology

Buying new technology is very easy, providing you have the cash. once 
in the transporter, select the type of technology you want, this will 
be replaced by a large bank of buttons, each one with a name of the 
available technology in it, for example:

 ----------  ----
|Stabilizer||Mine|
 ----------  ----

By selecting one of these, an isometric version of the building will 
be shown and a brief description of what it does, followed by the 
price. If you can afford it and you want it simply press the space bar
and its yours, the link will then return to the selection process, if 
you change your mind, clicking the right mouse button will allow you 
to pick another.

Also, when the transporter arrives it brings with it new men who wish 
to join your team, if you have enough housing space they will.

                            Firing Missiles

In order to fire missiles several things are need:

Power
Missile Silo
Missile

If you have all of these things, then firing a missile is very easy:

Goto the asteroid field map and select MISSILE
then select the asteroid you want to fire from
and then the type of missile you want to fire
the game will then ask you to set a destination POINT, please note 
that missiles are NOT self guiding, they will head towards your target
point and explode there, they will not track an asteroid.

Missiles cannot be used against space craft.

                          Launching an Attack

Launching space crafts for an attack is much the same as targeting a 
missile, simply select the CRAFT button and then the source asteroid, 
followed by the type of craft you want to launch, then it changes 
slightly:

Select you target type:
                Missile - This will intercept and attack a missile in
                          flight
                Craft   - This will intercept another craft providing
                          it has a lock on signal (all known crafts 
                          do)
                Asteroid- This will fly to an asteroid set up an orbit
                          and fire at the surface

for each option you must follow it by selecting the target you 
require

                                Spying

There are three types of craft that can spy and they are cruisers. 
They can only be send to an asteroid, once there they change into a 
satellite and send video signals of the surface back to your asteroid.
Targeting asteroids for survailence is carried out in the same way as
with launching an attack.

In order to scan an asteroid simply click the SCAN button on the 
asteroid field and then the asteroid that has a satellite around it.

                         Claiming an Asteroid

The Heavy Cruiser is the only vessel that can claim an asteroid, this 
is done simply by sending it to an asteroid, scanning it and clicking 
on the claim button.

                                Extras

As you progress through the game extra buildings and missiles will 
come your way, each building function is controlled using a series of 
on screen prompts so there is no need to cover them here so you know 
whats coming. Everything in the game is explained on screen and is 
easy to follow. So DON'T PANIC.

                           Winning or Losing

Winning can be achieved by the destruction of your opponent, but this 
can be achieved a number of ways:

Another asteroid destroys your opponents base
All of his/her men die
You complete destroy them

The last option is of course the most enjoyable

                            In Game Controls

The game is essential controlled using the mouse. Extras are displayed
on screen, so you wont have to remember hundreds of keys.

1 to 0 control the buying and selling of stock
I displays the base resources
-+ increase and decrease the volume of the music playing
space bar is used to buy technology

The right mouse button is general used to cancel any functions, if you
change your mind.
