                      Charlie J Cool
                      --------------

Press space to move onto next page.
Press Ctrl C to exit.

This disk contains four levels from the platform game 
"Charlie J Cool".  If you'd like the full version, simply
send a cheque or postal order for £10 (made payable to Neil
Cousins).  If ordering from outside the UK, send an 
international money order for £10, made payable to Neil 
Cousins.  Send your order to the following address:

NRC Software
131 Gunnersbury Avenue
Acton
London
W3 8LE
England

Please state which version you require, the A500 version or
the A1200 version.  The A500 will of course work on any 
Amiga, the A1200 will also work on any machine with the 
A1200 chipset.  Please don't forget to include you're name
and address with your order.

All orders will normally be dispatched within 21 days of
receipt.

The full game
-------------

The full game contains seven lands, each with four levels, 
making 28 levels in all.  There are secret rooms, two bonus
levels and three different end of game sequences.  The game
comes on two disks, will work on any Amiga (including half
meg machines).  

Playing the demo
----------------

Once you've loaded one of the demos on this disk, simply 
use your joystick left/right to move Charlie, fire to jump.
You can use keyboard controls aswell - arrow keys 
left/right to move, up arrow to jump.  Press P to pause and
unpause.  The idea is to collect a key (which isn't always
in the same place) and then go to the GOAL sign at the end
of the level.  Collect coins and other goodies to boost 
your score, collect power-ups to give you extra abilities.
You may notice that some creatures kill you, some don't.
In the final game, the ending is controlled by you - kill
enough harmless creatures and you'll go to hell, kill 
enough nasty creatures and you'll go to heaven (both are
bonus levels).  Kill an equal amount of both for a third
outcome.  Oh, almost forgot - press down to enter secret
rooms, you'll have to find them first though.....there's a
power-up which will point them out for you if you're lazy.

Credits
-------

Programming and design   - Neil Cousins.
Graphics                 - Lee Matcalfe.
Music and FX             - Matthew Mahoney.

Thanks to Kimba for spreading this demo (nice one dude).

By the way, you may have seen this game reviewed some time
ago.  It was due for commercial release but my publishers
went into liquidation.  I therefore decided to release the
game on my own as shareware, and for a reasonable price.  
Right, this is the end so reset and get playing!




