Beta .33  Released Jan 30 1999

NOTE:

This beta version is designed to run on a GFX card as well as on
all standard Amiga models with WB 2.xx - 3.xx

It might also work on an Amiga emulator...

YOU MUST HAVE A COMPLETE VERSION OF CRAZY 8's 2.7 - 2.8

THIS PROGRAM USES ALL THE SAME DATA FILES, AND IT WILL NOT

RUN BY ITSELF! 

To test it, just copy the Crazy8.beta program into your
Crazy8 main drawer.  You do not need to remove the normal
Crazy8 program from the drawer, but you can if you like.

When you click on the programs icon, you will see a standard
ASL screen mode requester.

The native screen mode for crazy 8's is a standard lo-res screen,
either NTSC or PAL, 320 x 200 size, of 8 colours.

It should also work on GFX card modes such as 320 x 240, and
possibly on other Amiga modes such as Super 72, etc.
As long as the screen size is no smaller than 320 x 200 and
allows at least 8 colours.  Keep in mind that the graphics are
designed for a "square pixel" screen, and will be distorted on
any non-square screen modes.

The screen you selected will be saved as tooltypes on the program's
icon, and you will not see the screen mode requester the next time
you play the game.  DO NOT change the settings of these tooltypes!
This can cause big problems!  If you want to change the screenmode,
remove the SCREEN= tooltype from the icon, and save it.  Then you
will get the screen mode requester the next time you play.

Please fill out the included report form and email it back to me.

Your help is greatly appreciated, and will allow many improvements
to the next release of Crazy 8's.

This Beta version uses all the same data files as the full 2.7
release of the game.  It will use your old score data, card set,
samples, and locale without needing to reset them.

NOTE: If you are using a locale other than English, some things
in this Beta version will not be translated.

Sorry for any inconvienience, but I don't have a GFX card myself,
so I must rely on your help.



              Curt Esser