Return-Path: <cgdemarc@ai.mit.edu>
From: cgdemarc@ai.mit.edu (Carl de Marcken)
Date: Tue, 11 Jan 94 15:13:18 EST
To: olympians94
Subject: Olympic Text-Adventure Game Kickoff





Picture yourself.  Atop a great roan mare, flashing sword lifted high into
the heavens as Bitumen, the great Silver Dragon of the North, dives down
from the lightning-filled skies, his eyes betraying a hatred so fierce and
vivid to strike your heart cold even through the sweeping rain.

Picture yourself.  By finding the purple cow, you've convinced the
villagers that Alyssa is neither a witch nor a duck, rescuing her from
almost certain death by drowning in the fish pond of unequaled pungence.
Abandoning Ben forever, she enraptures you with one unending kiss.

Picture yourself.  By rewiring over 15,000 packet-routers you have built
the smartest machine in the solar system, capable of answering the most
profound questions to ever plague the psyche of man.  You, and only you,
will be able to assimilate that most holy of facts: what happens if your
life ends in a tie.

Yes, you can be this and more.  Indulge your every fantasy.  Step into a
world so grand, so beyond the bounds of mortality, that every instant is
filled with more danger and opportunity than you could experience in a
thousand of your lifetimes.

Come, join forces with your teammates in

	     >>>                                        <<<
	     >>> GC: A Thrashing Parity Bit of the Mind <<<
	     >>>                                        <<<

the 1994 AI Laboratory Olympics text adventure game.  No superficial
sensory stimuli this, GC grasps at your imagination, pulling you deep into
a universe more wonder-filled than any child has ever forged.

Weeks in the making, with a cast of twenties, some of the game's denizens
include:

	the monkey that wrote Hamlet;
	NOP, your faithful but, well, simple, companion;
	the nth-queen, defender of the rod of righteousness
	  and guardian of the lady of the lake;
	a walrus of eternal flatulence;
	and 77 blue trombones.

Can you steal past the thief?  Can you convince the butler to lock his
door?  Which rock is the wolf behind?  Who played the platinum flute?  Why
does the birch tree sway on this windless day?  Is the misty figure across
the ravine Professor Plum, or his nemesis?  Will the sleeping king ever
wake?  Can you cajole the the three witches into revoking the spell?

Are you up for the challenge?  Be wary, the truths in this game strike deep
into the soul of man.

If so, meet in the 7th floor playroom on Wednesday at 1PM, and be prepared
to rearrange your mind forever!  Tutorials available for those who have
never experienced Colossal Cave or its progeny.


