                             BATTLEHAWKS 1942

Typed by SIDEWINDER of LSD


GETTING STARTED
Once you've loaded the 'Battlehawks' disk, you'll be at the first of several
menus.  Here's how to move through all your menu choices, including reviewing
planes, selecting missions, and keeping track of your pilot records.

HOW TO SELECT FROM THE CHOICES ON THE SCREEN
From now on, we'll refer to your cursor keys, mouse, or joystick as the 'the
controller.'
At many points in the game, you'll see a display of your current options with
one option highlighted in a bright colour.  You can move this highlight from
one choice to another by moving your controller in the appropriate direction,
or by pressing the correct keys (see Keyboard Reference).  Then, to actually
choose the highlighted selection and move on the next screen, press RETURN
(or press and release your controller button).

GAME START
Press any key or button to move through the title screen and the credits to
the Main Menu.
You'll know you've reached the Main Menu when you see a screen with a close-
up of an American 'Wildcat' fighter plane on the deck of a carrier.  There
will be five menu choices:

SELECT TRAINING
Allows you to choose a Training mission, which will not reflect on your
Service Record.

SELECT ACTIVE DUTY
Allows you to choose an Active Duty mission that will count on your Service
Record.

REVIEW PLANES
Allows you to inspect the different Japanese and American aircraft you can
fly in 'Battlehawks'.

REVIEW SERVICE RECORDS
Allows you to inspect and manage the records of all pilots.  You'll
automatically start the game with an American pilot named TRAINEE.  if you
want to use a different pilot, or start with a new one, you must choose this
option before your first Active Duty mission.

EXIT FROM PROGRAM
Allows you to leave the game.

TRAINING MISSIONS
Here's where you can develop, practise, and improve your skills that can help
you perform well in your Active Duty missions.  Since none of the results of
these Training missions will appear in your Service Record, we encourage you
to take chances and make mistakes when flying them.  It's the best way to
become a better pilot in actual combat missions.
Once you have chosen a Training mission, you will move to the Ready Room
screen, where you can make modifications to your mission.  Experiment with as
many different modifications as you can.
You'll have four types of Training missions to choose from:

FIGHTER INTERCEPT
You'll attack incoming enemy planes with your fighter.  You must defend your
ship by shooting down enemy bombers or their fighter escorts before they can
attack.

FIGHTER ESCORT
You'll fly a fighter and defend friendly aircraft as they attack enemy ships.
With enemy fighters everywhere, your fellow pilots will need all the
protection you can give them.

DIVE-BOMBING
You'll drop your bomb load on an enemy ship.  Dive bombers flew at high
altitudes, then plunged almost straight down, releasing their bombs and
pulling out close over their targets.  Depending on your mission, you may
face enemy fighter opposition.  For more information, see the section on
'Aerial Tactics and Tips'.

TORPEDO BOMBING
You'll fly a hazardous torpedo run.  The low-flying torpedo bombers had to
skim the waves to launch their torpedo - and to avoid being detected by the
enemy.  Fly low and slow towards the enemy ship, and drop your torpedo when
you're close.  Enemy fighters may be in the area.  Techniques of torpedo-
bombing are discussed in 'Aerial Tactics and Tips'.

EXIT
This returns you to the Main Menu.

To select one of these Training missions, move your controller up and down
until the type of mission you want to fly is highlighted.  Next, move your
controller right to view the different scenarios for that type of mission,
then left to view them again.  The first scenarios are the easiest, and you
may face little or no opposition.  As you continue to move the controller to
the right, the scenarios will become more and more difficult.

ACTIVE DUTY MISSIONS
These are the ones that count!  Success in your Active Duty missions will be
regarded with promotions and medals, which will be logged in your Service
Record.  But failure to execute your mission correctly will be recorded.
And remember - in 1942, many pilots did not make it back to their ships.
These missions can be hazardous!
When you move to Active Duty missions screen, the name and nationality of
your current pilot is displayed at the top.  With the original pilot,
TRAINEE, you won't be able to save your Service Record.  If you want to
change the pilot, select REVIEW SERVICE RECORDS from the Main Menu.  (For
more information, see the 'Review Service Records' section of this manual.)
To start your Active Duty mission, choose one of the battles shown on your
screen.  Then, move your controller right to view the various missions you
can fly, then left to look them over again.  These missions will vary,
depending on the battle you have chosen, and the nationality of your pilot.
You may select the missions in any order, but you must complete all the
missions in a given battle to qualify for top honours.
On the menu screen, you'll see the following four battle choices:

THE BATTLE OF THE CORAL SEA
A duel of the flattops, where for the first time a naval battle was fought
entirely with air power.  The Americans lost more ships, but won the more
important victory of preventing a Japanese invasion.  This time, the outcome
is up to you.

THE BATTLE OF MIDWAY
The pivotal battle of 1942, perhaps the whole Pacific war.  When it was over,
four Japanese carriers were at the bottom of the sea.  Can you recreate
history - or change it?

THE BATTLE OF THE EASTERN SOLOMONS
The Japanese want to land troops on the island of Guadalcanal.  The Americans
want to stop them.  Historically, it was a trade-off in ships, but a
strategic victory for the Americans because the Japanese invasion fleet
turned back.  Now, it's in your hands.

THE BATTLE OF THE SANTA CRUZ ISLANDS
The last major carrier battle of 1942.  A victory here, and the Japanese
could still dominate the Pacific theatre.  Will you give the Empire of the
Rising Sun new hope - or stop it cold?

In each of these battles, you experience the same situation from both sides
of the battle.  The composition of the forces may not be precisely the same
for each side, as exciting situations were chosen to maximise each side's
challenge.
After you've chosen one of these battles, move your controller right to view
your mission choices, then left to see them a second time.  Remember, to
distinguish yourself in combat, you're encouraged to fly all the missions in
a given battle.

BATTLE OF THE CORAL SEA
MISSION CHOICES:

1. U.S. - Fly one of several SBD 'Duantless' launched from the carrier
                'Lexington' in a dive-bombing attack on the damaged and burning
                light carrier 'Shoho'.  Enemy cover is expected.  (In the actual
                battle, the 'Shoho' was sunk.)


1. JAPAN        -       Fly a 'Zero' fighter on an intercept mission to protect the
                        'Shoho' from approaching U.S. dive bombers.

2. U.S.         -       You're in a F4F 'Wildcat' fighter, escorting a group of dive
                        bombers in their attack on the 'Shokaku', a heavy carrier.  An
                        aggressive CAP (Combat Air Patrol) of 'Zeros' will try to
                        protect the carrier.  (In this action, the 'Shokaku' was
                        damaged and had to sit out the Battle of Midway.)

2. JAPAN        -       You and your 'Zero' fighter must intercept the approaching
                        American air strike and save the 'Shokaku', an honoured veteran
                        of the Pearl Harbour attack.

3. U.S.         -       You're on the defensive in your 'Wildcat' as a group of 'Kate'
                        torpedo bombers, escorted by 'Zero' fighters, close in to
                        attack.  Concentrate on the 'Kates', and don't let them get
                        through to the 'Lexington'.  (Historically, this attack
                        succeeded and the 'Lexington' sank soon after.)

3. JAPAN        -       Recreate history in your 'Kate' torpedo bomber by attacking and
                        sinking the carrier 'Lexington'.

4. U.S.         -       Defend the 'Yorktown' from attacking Japanese 'Val' dive
                        bombers.  You'll have to move your 'Wildcat' quickly to save
                        the carrier.  (The 'Yorktown' was damaged in the actual battle,
                        but was repaired in record time at Pearl Harbour, and went on
                        to play an important part in the Battle of Midway.)

4. JAPAN        -       Try to change history by dive bombing the 'Yorktown' into
                        oblivion        with your 'Val'.  Enemy fighter cover is present.

BATTLE OF MIDWAY
MISSION CHOICES:

1. U.S.         -       You fly a 'Dauntless' dive bomber as the wing man for
                        Lieutenant Dick Best as he makes his run on the carrier
                        'Akagi'.  Enemy fighters (CAP) are at low level, having just
                        devastated the American         torpedo planes.  Follow Lt. Best in
                        and drop your bombs on the carrier.  (Historically, both bombs
                        hit, and Lt. Best went on to become one of the first heroes of
                        the war.)

1. JAPAN        -       Perhaps the most critical minutes of the entire war for the
                        Japanese!  You and your 'Zero' must intercept the numerous
                        American bombers attacking your carrier.  Honour the Emperor,
                        and rewrite history.

2. U.S.         -       The carriers 'Akagi', 'Kaga', and 'Soryu' are damaged.  Your
                        squadron of 'Dauntless' dive bombers can help send them to the
                        bottom, or seek out and destroy the carrier 'Hiryu'.  (In the
                        actual battle, the 'Hiryu' was not attacked in the first dive-
                        bombing strike, and launched a strike of its own against the
                        'Yorktown'.

2. JAPAN        -       Protect the 'Hiryu' from the attacking Americans.  Only your
                        'Zero'' can save the carrier so it can launch a counterstrike.

3. U.S.         -       The tables are turned as you pilot a 'Wildcat' in defence of
                        the 'Yorktown'.  Stop the 'Vals' that are attacking in great
                        numbers.  (In this action at Midway, the 'Yorktown' was heavily
                        damaged.)

3. JAPAN        -       You and your 'Val' represent a chance to avenge your fallen
                        comrades.  Dive-bomb the 'Yorktown' and sink it!

4. U.S.         -       One last chance to save the 'Yorktown'.  The 'Val' attack has
                        damaged the carrier, and the follow-up attack is a squadron of
                        'Kate' torpedo bombers.  Pilot your 'Wildcat' skilfully and
                        you may prevent the 'Yorktown's historical fate.

4. JAPAN        -       Use your powerful 'long distance' torpedo to send the
                        'Yorktown' to the bottom.  You must pilot your 'Kate' through
                        the heavy enemy CAP that protects your target.

BATTLE OF THE EASTERN SOLOMONS
MISSION CHOICES:

1. U.S.         -       Your TBF 'Avenger' packs a powerful punch.  If you can deliver
                        its torpedo to the carrier 'Ryujo', you may repeat history and
                        sink it.

1. JAPAN        -       Fly your 'Zero' with distinction, and the 'Ryujo' can live to
                        fight again.

2. U.S.         -       Attacking Japanese planes threaten the 'Enterprise'.  You must
                        fly a 'Wildcat' in CAP to protect the carrier.  The attack is
                        fierce, and it will take every bit of skill and daring you can
                        muster.  (Historically, the 'Enterprise' was damaged but
                        survived.)

2. JAPAN        -       Try to turn the tables on the U.S. forces by sinking the
                        'Enterprise'.  You fly a 'Zero' escorting some 'Val' dive
                        bombers.

3. U.S.         -       You've dropped your torpedo on the 'Ryujo' and your home
                        carrier is in sight.  But the battle isn't over.  You'll have
                        to fly your 'Avenger' as a fighter when you encounter a flight
                        of Japanese bombers returning from their attack on the
                        'Enterprise'.

3. JAPAN        -       It's an unusual match.  Will the superior manoeuvrability of
                        your 'Val' let you outfight the slow but tough well-armed
                        'Avenger'?  Remember, you both have tail guns!

4. U.S.         -       Fly your unescorted 'Dauntless' in a strike against the well-
                        protected Japanese Support Group ships.  There are no carriers,
                        so pick out a cruiser and dive in.

4. JAPAN        -       You're lucky enough to be flying CAP in your 'Zero' over
                        several cruisers and a seaplane carrier of the Support Group
                        when enemy dive bombers make their appearance.  Save the ships!

BATTLE OF THE SANTA CRUZ ISLANDS
MISSION CHOICES:

1. U.S.         -       Your scouting 'dauntless' has spotted the main Japanese force's
                        carriers.  Attack despite the heavy CAP resistance, and you may
                        better the inconclusive historical results.

1. JAPAN        -       Bring down the enemy dive bombers with your 'Zero' before they
                        can reach the carriers.  Be sure to watch out for their tail
                        gunners.

2. U.S.         -       Fly CAP in your 'Wildcat', and protect the 'Hornet' from a
                        combined attack of 'Vals' and 'Kates'.  (In the actual battle,
                        this proved to be too great a challenge and the 'Hornet' was
                        badly damaged, and later sank.)


2. JAPAN        -       Your 'Kate' torpedo bomber is to attack the 'Hornet' in concert
                        with a 'Val' dive-bombing attack.  Your torpedo carries a
                        deadly punch, but the American fighter cover and anti-aircraft
                        fire offer a strong defence.

3. U.S.         -       Fly your 'Avenger' torpedo bomber in an attack against your old
                        nemesis, the 'Shokaku'.  The carrier is well-protected, but
                        with courage and luck, you could sink it.  (In 1942, the
                        'Shokaku' was badly damaged in the attack and knocked out of
                        action for nine months.)

3. JAPAN        -       Save the 'Shokaku' with your 'Zero', and air superiority in the
                        Pacific may again belong to the Empire of the Rising Sun.

4. U.S.         -       A difficult 'Wildcat' fighter mission unfolds as you escort
                        damaged torpedo bombers home.  You must pass through a gauntlet
                        of 'Zeros' eager for a chance to even the score.

4. JAPAN        -       Your last chance for a honourable victory!  Fly your 'Zero'
                        like a 'samurai', and pick off the enemy torpedo bombers and
                        their fighter escort.

REVIEW PLANES
When you select REVIEW PLANES from the Main Menu, you'll be sent to a new
menu screen.  Here you can inspect American and Japanese aircraft from top
and side views, and read about their characteristics, both in the air and in
battle.
Your menu choices are:

AMERICAN/JAPANESE (FLAG)
Select either flag to view the fighters, dive bombers, and torpedo bombers
from that country.

NEXT PLANE
After you select this option, the top and side profile of the plane will
appear, along with a description of its features, strengths and weaknesses.
Move your controller right to look at the next aircraft, or left to look at
the previous plane again.

ROTATE PLANE
This lets you rotate the side view of the plane.  Move your controller left
and right to see what the plane looks like at different angles.

REVIEW SERVICE RECORDS
The menu choice REVIEW SERVICE RECORDS lets you look over and modify the
records of current and previous pilots who have flown 'Battlehawks' missions.
The name and nationality of your current pilot are shown at the top of the
screen.
These are the selections you'll see on the screen:

SELECT PILOT
This one lets you choose one pilot from the list of current ones to become
your active pilot.  You need to do this before starting on any Active Duty
missions that you want to record.
When you boot up the program, a preselected American will be your current
pilot.  The pilot will be named TRAINEE, and will also appear whenever you
delete your current pilot.  If you fly any mission with TRAINEE as your
pilot, that Service Record cannot be saved.  Enter your own pilot name and
nationality when you want to save the results of a mission.  The nationality
of the pilot will determine which side you fight on.
You may select a pilot that has been grounded, retired, or killed in action
(KIA) if you want to review his record.  This pilot cannot fly any more
missions.

NEW PILOT
This allows you to enter a new name on the lists of pilots, and select his
nationality.

VIEW RECORDS
This displays the battle history of the selected pilot.  Medals are shown in
the cases on the lower part of the screen.  See the 'Medals and Promotion'
section for more information on these.
The battle history keeps track of victorious missions as well as a count of
defeated enemy planes and ships.  Each small ship and aircraft symbol stands
for one ship or plane destroyed; each large symbol stands for five.   The
number of planes your pilot has lost is also shown.  If a pilot loses ten
planes, he'll be grounded, unable to fly.  After sixteen missions he'll be
retired, and can live out his life as a genuine World War II hero.

RENAME
This lets you change the name of an existing pilot.

DELETE
Use this to remove a pilot from the list.

PREPARE DISK
Use this on a formatted floppy to set it up as a Service Record disk.

BEST CAREER
Choose this to display a list of the pilots with the all-time best combat
careers.

BEST MISSION
Choose this to display a list of the all-time best single missions pilots
have flown, regardless of their total career record.

Once you have chosen a mission, you'll be sent to the Ready Room.  There,
you'll get your mission briefing.  You can modify your missions in the Ready
Room, but if you modify Active Duty missions there, they will NOT count on
your record.  The blackboard in the centre of the screen describes your new
mission.  The indicator boxes along the top show those characteristics of
your mission that you can modify.  From left to right they are:
PLANE MODEL, AMMUNITION/FUEL/DAMAGE LEVELS, STARTING ALTITUDE, and ENEMY
SKILL LEVEL.
You can change these mission settings by selecting MODIFY PLANE.  When you
do, the briefing will be replaced by a list of options.  Move the highlight
through the options, and make your selections.  As you press RETURN (or your
controller button), you will change the settings.  These changes will be
displayed in the corresponding box at the top of the blackboard.

Here are your choices:

PLANE MODEL
Use this to change to a different model of aircraft.  You'll retain the
current type of plane (FIGHTER/DIVE BOMBER/TORPEDO BOMBER), but you can try
newer or older models of that plane which might have been on a Japanese or
American carrier in 1942.  In Active Duty missions, if you want to fly planes
of a different nationality, you must register as a pilot of that nationality.
(See the section on 'Review Service Records.)

AMMUNITION
Use this to change between STANDARD or UNLIMITED amounts of ammunition.  In
the STANDARD mode, you'll carry the same amount of ammunition as the planes
in 1942 did.  In UNLIMITED mode, you'll never run out of ammunition.

FUEL
Use this to choose between STANDARD or UNLIMITED amounts of fuel.  STANDARD
is the amount of fuel that planes in 1942 carried.  Since 'Battlehawks'
concentrate on the combat part of a flight mission, there is often little
chance of running out of gas, even at the STANDARD fuel setting.  If you're
low on fuel, you can decrease your fuel consumption by cutting back on the
throttle (see 'Keyboard Reference').

PLANE DAMAGE LEVELS
With this you can change between STANDARD and INVINCIBLE modes.  STANDARD is
the normal amount of damage sustained by that plane, and INVINCIBLE lets your
plane take an endless amount of damage, so you can't crash or be shot down.
In the INVINCIBLE mode, you'll never hit the water.

STARTING ALTITUDE
This gives you the choice of altitudes from which you can begin your mission
(in general, starting a few thousand feet higher than your enemies gives you
an advantage).

ENEMY SKILL LEVEL
With this setting, you can select the skill level of your enemies.  In
increasing order, these levels are CADET, VETERAN, and ACE.  (Since the
Japanese did not acknowledge aces by number of planes shot down, the ACE skill
level is used here to denote top-quality pilots.)

RESET ALL VALUES
This restores the values for this mission to the default settings, or the
settings that initially appear in the Ready Room.  IMPORTANT: If you change
ANY values for an Active Duty mission, it will not be recorded in your
Service Record.  Only valid, historically-accurate missions are counted.  For
this reason, if you decide you don't want to change any values after all, use
this option.

BEGIN FLIGHT
Select this only when you're ready to begin your mission.  When you do,
you'll be given a recognition/password test, and then sent to the skies.

NEW MISSION
If you decide you don't like your current mission after seeing the briefing,
use this command to return to the mission selection screen.


COCKPIT VIEW
You always start your mission inside the cockpit of your aircraft.  Here are
the instruments you'll see in front off you:

1.      SPEED BRAKES
        (SBD 'Dauntless' only) This indicates the position of your speed brakes.
        DOWN is open, UP is closed.  Use your speed brakes to slow your dive
        bomber while diving on a target.

2.      FLAPS
        This gives you the position of your flaps.  UP means flaps up, DOWN
        means flaps down.  Put your flaps down to lower your stalling speed,
        so you can fly slower without stalling (useful in torpedo runs).
        Otherwise, fly with your flaps up for greater speed.

3.      LANDING GEAR
        This shows you the position of your landing gear.  In the 'Val' dive
        bomber, the landing gear is always down.  Lowering your landing gear
        can slow you down slightly by increasing drag.

4.      NAME
        This indicates the name and model of your aircraft.

5.      AIRSPEED INDICATOR
        This reads in hundreds of miles per hour, so 2 is 200 MPH.  Stalling
        speed is about 70 MPH with the flaps up.

6.      CLIMB/DIVE INDICATOR
        This dial shows how fast you're gaining or losing altitude.  The
        positive readings at the top show a climb, the negative ones at the
        bottom show a dive.  All readings are in thousands of feet per minute.

7.      RPM INDICATOR
        This shows your throttle setting in revolutions per minute.  The higher
        the setting, the farther to the right the indicator goes.  The red area
        warns you when you're using fuel at a high rate.

8.      CAMERA INDICATOR
        This red light comes when your replay camera is recording (see 'Keyboard
        Reference' for details on how to control the camera).  Use this feature
        to record and replay the events happening around you.  While you're
        watching your replay, you can use your controller to move your point of
        view all around the sky.  The replay camera is an excellent tool for
        learning flight tactics, as well as a way to enjoy the game from a movie
        like perspective.

9.      BANKING INDICATOR
        This dial shows the roll of your plane.    When you're flying with your
        wings level, the indicator will display a straight horizontal line with a
        small vertical bar to show which way your tail points.  As you bank to
        the left or right, the indicator will change to show your orientation.

10.     PITCH INDICATOR
        This shows how far above or below the horizon the nose of your plane is
        pointing.  The + direction is up, 0 is level, and - is down.

11.     VIEW INFO
        This small panel serves several functions.  When you're in normal
        forward flight, it is blank.  On some computers, RIGHT, LEFT, DOWN, or
        REAR will be displayed when you look out your cockpit window in those
        directions.  Your screen will also display the corresponding view from
        the cockpit.  (See 'Keyboard Reference' for information about looking
        out your cockpit.)  Other computers will show you these views through
        the appropriate side or rear window.
        VIEW INFO can also be used in the SCAN mode to let you look around in
        any direction, using your controller to move your point of view.  In
        this mode, the VIEW INFO panel shows two numbers.  The first indicates
        how many degrees up or down you're looking.  It ranges from -90 degrees
        (straight down) through 0 (horizon level), through +90 degrees (straight
        up).  The second number shows the direction you're looking, relative to
        your line of travel.  If you're looking to the left, it goes from 0
        degrees (straight ahead), through +90 degrees (directly to the right),
        to +180 degrees (behind you).  If you're looking to the left, it goes
        from 0 degrees (straight ahead), through -90 degrees (straight left), to
        -179 degrees (nearly straight behind you).
        In the replay camera mode, REPLAY will be displayed here (see 'Keyboard
        Reference' section for instructions on using the replay camera).

12.     ALTIMETER
        This dial shows your altitude in feet.  The digital display on the dial
        shows thousands of feet, the little hand hundreds of feet, and the big
        hand tens of feet.  For example, if the digital display reads 02, the
        little hand is on the 6, and the big hand is midway between 1 and 2,
        your altitude is 2,615 feet.

13.     COMPASS
        This indicates which direction you're heading: north, south, east, or
        west.

14.     ENGINE/AIRFRAME DAMAGE COUNTERS
        These twin dials show the total damage to the engine (top dial) and the
        airframe (bottom dial).  Severe damage to either the engine or the
        airframe will push the indicators over the red.  If that happens, you're
        likely to completely lose engine power or lose control of your aircraft.
        Your only option will be to bail out.

15.     GUN ROUNDS
        This indicator shows how many rounds of ammunition are left in your
        forward pointing gun.  The Japanese 'Zero' fighter has two indicators
        here.  The top one shows the number of rounds in your 7.7 mm machine
        guns, and the bottom one indicates the number of rounds in your more
        powerful 20 mm cannon.
        When you're flying dive bombers or torpedo bombers, an indicator in the
        rear view shows how many rounds are left in the rear machine guns.

16.     FUEL GAUGE
        This gauge shows how much fuel you have: E means empty, F means full.

17.     WARHEAD RELEASE
        This shows if you have a warhead (torpedo or bomb) to release.  Fighter
        planes never carry warheads in 'Battlehawks.'


LEAVING THE GAME
To exit the 'Battlehawks' program directly to your computer's operating
system, you may press the ESCAPE key at any time you are not in the cockpit.
From the in-flight, cockpit view, you must press: Q first to quit, then
ESCAPE to exit.

KEYBOARD/MOUSE/JOYSTICK
In this section, the mouse, joystick, and cursor keys will be referred to
collectively as the controller.  Buttons on the mouse or joystick will be
referred to as controller buttons.  In the menu screens (all screens except the
cockpit views, which are the ones you'll see in flight), the controller allows
you to move up, down, right, and left through the menu choices.

USING THE CONTROLLER TO PILOT YOUR AIRCRAFT
Your plane will respond to the direction you move your controller much the
same way a real plane would.  For more information, see the 'Flight
Fundamental' section

CONTROLLER DIRECTION                                    FUNCTION

Controller forward (away from you)                      Move the nose of the plane down.

Controller backward (toward you)                        Move the nose of the plane up.

Controller right                                                Bank the plane to the right.

Controller left                                         Bank the plane to the left.


CONTROLLER BUTTON FEATURES
These allow you to fire your forward-firing guns, and drop your warhead load.

CONTROLLER BUTTON                                               FUNCTION

Left Controller button (or space bar)           Fire main machine gun.

Right Controller button (or RETURN)             Fire 20 mm cannon in 'Zero' only.

Left AND right controller button (or RETURN) Drop warhead if you have one.


ADDITIONAL IN-FLIGHT KEYS

KEY             FUNCTION

 P              Pause game; press any key to continue

 Q              Quit game; get evaluation

 E              Toggle engine sound on/off

 S              Toggle ALL sound on/off

 V              Display version of game

 L              Drop/lift landing gear (except 'Val')

 F              Drop/lift flaps

 B              Open/close speed brakes (on 'Dauntless' only).

 +              Increase throttle

 -              Decrease throttle

 G              Flip gun sight up/down

 C              Toggle replay camera on/off

 R              Enter REPLAY Mode

 J              Jump from plane, parachute to safety


NUMERIC AND KEYPAD CONTROLS
The following numeric and keypad keys control the different views you can
switch to and from the cockpit.  Your computer may require NUM LOCK on for
keypad use.

KEY             FUNCTION

 8              Look forward (your mission starts in this view)

 6              Look right

 4              look left

 2              Look back (in torpedo or dive bomber, this also activates rear gun)

 3              Look down (straight down, regardless of flight angle)

 9              Look around - (SCAN view)


REPLAY MODE CONTROLS
When you turn your camera on, it starts recording your actions.  It stops when
you turn it off or run out of film.  Starting your camera again erases your
old film, making a fresh recording.
When you are watching a replay of one of your aerial battles, use the
controller to change your viewing angle.  This lets you look at the replay
from anywhere in the sky.
In the replay mode, your instrument panel will reflect what was happening to
your plane during the original flight.  When the replay is over, you will be
back in your plane at the moment you started the replay.  You may not use the
replay mode after you have crashed or bailed out of your plane.

ADDITIONAL REPLAY MODE CONTROLS

KEY                                     FUNCTION

Left button/space bar    Move forward (at a constant altitude)

 +                                      Increase camera altitude

 -                                      Decrease camera altitude

 R                                      Reposition camera to your plane's location

 F                                      Resume normal flight


REAR GUN CONTROLS
All dive bombers and torpedo bombers have rear guns.  After you have switched
from front view to the rear view to control the rear guns.  After you have
switched from the front view to control the rear gun, your plane will fly on
'automatic pilot', with the controls set where you left them.  if you stall or
about to crash into the water, return to the forward view to regain control of
your aircraft.

CONTROL                         FUNCTION

Controller                      Move rear gun and view; only works behind and above
                                        current position.

Left button/space bar    Fire rear gun.

 8                                      Return to forward view and controlled flight


SCAN VIEW

CONTROL                         FUNCTION

Controller                      Moving viewing angle all around; angle degree is
                                        displayed.

Any valid number key    Switch to a different view.  The 8 key returns you to
                                        forward view.



FLIGHT REVIEW

ENDING YOUR MISSION
There are several ways of ending your mission.  You may press  Q to end it at
any time.  The game may tell you to press this key once your mission has been
completed (this is to give you time to look at a replay before you end your
mission).
The mission will also end if you crash or are shot down.  You may ditch your
plane (come to a level landing on the water), or parachute safely down in the
water.  In rare instances, you may even run out of fuel.  In any case, once
your mission is over, you will be given a flight review.
NOTE:  If your current pilot is killed in action during a mission, you will
not be able to repeat that mission.  You'll have to start up a new pilot, or
fly with the assigned pilot, TRAINEE.

YOUR FLIGHT REVIEW
This takes place in the Ready Room.  On the screen before you, you'll see your
commander, and a written description of how well you performed in your
mission.
The most critical factor in your review is whether or not you have
successfully completed the mission.  On fighter intercept missions where you
are defending your carrier, quitting before the enemy planes have attacked is
NOT a successful completion.  You need to shoot down or drive away all
attackers.  If you are on a fighter escort mission, your priority is to keep
the enemy aircraft away from the planes you are escorting.  Finally, if you
are on a bombing mission, you must make a successful hit on an enemy ship with
your warhead (torpedo or bomb) to complete your mission.
The flight review blackboard also shows the number of friendly and enemy
planes and ships that have been damaged or destroyed during your mission.  The
planes and symbols you'll see are for ALL kinds of planes and ships, not just
the aircraft carriers and fighter planes pictured on the blackboard.  The
number under the 'Tot' column are the totals of enemy losses; the numbers
under the 'You' column are the totals of enemy losses you caused.  If other
friendly planes cooperate with you in shooting down an enemy plane, you'll get
credit for it if more than half of the hits are yours.  If you bomb an enemy
ship and it sinks later, you'll get credit for the sinking even if it's hit by
other bombs after yours.  If you're an American pilot, the losses credited to
you will make you more likely to get a medal or promotion than if you're a
Japanese pilot.  If you fly for the Japanese, you're more likely to be
rewarded for distinguished service.
Once you've seen your flight review, press any key or your controller button
to get to the next screen.  If you've finished an Active Duty mission and
didn't change any parameters on the Ready Room screen, you'll see your current
Service Records on the screen (see the 'Review Service Records' section for
more information).  You may even be eligible for a medal or promotion.  To
exit from these screens, press any key or your controller button.  This will
send you to a text screen.  There, you'll have two choices.  Pressing S will
repeat the same mission, while pressing RETURN will send you to the Main Menu.

MEDALS AND PROMOTION
To win a medal, move up in rank, and make the 'Best Missions' list, the most
critical factor is fulfilling your basic mission requirements.  If you've
successfully guarded your ship, escorted those torpedo bombers, or whatever
your mission called for, you're more likely to be rewarded.  Causing other
damage to the enemy is secondary.  In attack missions, every bomb or torpedo
that hits an enemy ship helps your chances for promotion significantly.  Of
course, damaging friendly planes and ships will count against you.  Finally,
protecting other friendly planes will add to your final rank.

UNITED STATES NAVY MEDALS (Listed in order of rank)
After you have successfully completed an Active Duty mission in 'Battlehawks',
you may be awarded one of the following medals:

CONGRESSIONAL MEDAL OF HONOUR
The highest award in the U.S. military, the Medal of Honour, was the first
medal established by the United States government, and was approved by
Congress and signed into law by President Abraham Lincoln on December 21,
1861.  It may given both in wartime and peacetime for an extraordinary act of
heroism or self-sacrifice in a combat or non-combat situation.  The Medal of
Honour is awarded by Congress to a person who 'distinguish(es) himself
conspicuously by gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of his life above and
beyond the call of duty and without detriment to the mission of his command or
to the command to which attached.'  It is the only medal presented by the
president       in the name of Congress.  The Medal of Honour may be awarded only
once; a Gold Star is awarded instead of a second medal, and is worn on the
ribbon of the Medal of Honour.

NAVY CROSS
Awarded for outstanding heroism while engaging an armed enemy, the Navy Cross
is the highest U.S. Navy medal given strictly for combat action and ranks just
below the Medal of Honour.  A Gold Star is awarded if a second Navy Cross is
warranted.

DISTINGUISHED SERVICE MEDAL
This award is presented for 'exceptionally meritorious service to the
government in a duty of great responsibility' in a combat or non-combat
situation.  Only one Distinguished Service Medal may be given to an
individual, with a Gold Star given instead of additional medals.

SILVER STAR MEDAL
This medal is awarded for an act of 'gallantry and intrepidity in action' that
does not warrant the awarding of the Medal of Honour or the Navy Cross.  it is
the second-highest award given strictly for combat action, ranking just behind
the Navy Cross.

DISTINGUISHED FLYING CROSS
A person may be awarded this medal if they perform an extraordinary act of
heroism while in flight, either in combat or non-combat situation.  It can
only be awarded once; a Gold Star is given for subsequent heroic acts.

AIR MEDAL
The Air Medal is given to an individual to distinguishes his or herself with
'meritorious achievement in an aerial flight,' either in combat or non-combat
actions.  It ranks just below the Distinguished Flying Cross.

PURPLE HEART
Originally established by George Washington in 1782, this medal is given to
any individual who is wounded by enemy action in such a way that requires
medical treatment.  A Gold Star is awarded if wounded in action again.


JAPANESE NAVY MEDALS
Unlike their United States Navy counterparts, the Japanese did not honour
their military heroes with medals or other citations for acts of bravery.  To
single out an individual for such an award would have been inconsistent with
the Japanese emphasis on the group over the individual.  Acts of bravery and
self-sacrifice were expected of Japanese airmen, and even the concept of the
'ace,' so widely idolized by the Americans, was ignored by the Japanese.  A
posthumous promotion in rank was the only official recognition of bravery in
combat.

ORDER OF THE RISING SUN
While the Japanese did not recognise heroism with a medal, on rare occasions
They did honour meritorious service with the Order of the Rising Sun.  This
medal had eight different classes, each representing how distinguished the act
of service was.  Originally founded in 1875, the Order of the Rising Sun was
awarded in both wartime and peacetime.  Officers, noncommissioned officers,
and even civilians were eligible for this medal.

CAMPAIGN MEDALS
These were issued to personnel who participated in various campaigns during
the Pacific war.  in 'Battlehawks', a Campaign Medal is awarded for
successfully completing an Active Duty mission at the Battle of the Coral Sea,
the Battle of Midway, the Battle of the Eastern Solomons, or the Battle of the
Santa Cruz Islands.

PROMOTIONS
In both the U.S. and Japanese navies, promotions were granted based on
experience more than individual valour.  Simply by serving well, not losing
too many planes, and surviving, pilots would rise in rank.  In the U.S. Navy,
the exception to this rule was when a pilot flew a particularly successful
mission.  This would often result in promotion.  Similarly, the Japanese
sometimes honoured their dead with a posthumous promotion.  A Japanese pilot's
highest honour (or, more appropriately, his family's highest honour) was a
posthumous double promotion.


AERIAL TACTICS AND TIPS
this section describes many of the tactics used in combat by World War II
pilots, as well as those that are applicable to the game situations in
'Battlehawks 1942'.
A valuable tool for analysing your tactics for any engagement is the replay
feature of 'Battlehawks'.  This lets you record your action and then view it
from any angle.  See the 'Keyboard Reference' section for more information.

FIGHTER TACTICS

DEFLECTIVE SHOOTING was a speciality of American fighter pilots, who practised
it frequently with difficult side approaches.  In 'Battlehawks', use the
gunsight to help you determine where to aim.  You will need to compensate for
the speed of your target, the angle at which it crosses your line of sight,
and its distance away from you.  When it is faster, closer to perpendicular to
your path, or farther away, you will have to lead your shots more.  try to
judge the direction it is flying, and aim along an imaginary line in front of
it.  You can judge distance by seeing how large the plane is compared to the
rings of your gunsight.  With practise, you'll be able to score hits every
time.

The Japanese excelled at tactics that used their planes' superior agility.
The 'scissors' was a manoeuvre used often by the nimble 'Zeros' against the
more sluggish American planes.  If an enemy is behind you, simply alternate
steep banks, turning first left, then right, then left again, while cutting
back on your throttle to slow down.  The plane behind you will not be able to
turn as quickly and will gradually pull ahead of you.  This should put you on
its tail.

If an enemy plane heads towards you then passes you, your fastest way to turn
is not to bank to one side but to execute a fancy manoeuvre.  Two good
ones are the 'Immelman turn' and the 'split-S'.  The Immelman is useful when
your target is at the same or a higher altitude and you aren't close to
stalling speed.  To execute it, pull back on your stick and flip
completely over, so you are upside-down pointing directly back along your
path.  If you perform this manoeuvre correctly, you see the enemy plane
in front of you.  Push the stick to one side or the other to right your
plane.

The split-S is sort of a vertical mirror image of the Immelman.  Use it to
turn around if you are close to stalling, if you need to shake an opponent, or
if the enemy has passed by below you.  First, push the stick fully to one side
(preferably towards the enemy who has just passed beneath you) until you are
upside-down.  Then, pull back on the stick until you have looped back to a
vertical position.  Don't try this if you are within a thousand feet of the
water!  If you execute this manoeuvre correctly, you'll be flying back the way
you came but at a lower altitude.  By banking a little as you are pointing
straight down, you can quickly change your final direction to any angle you
want.

DIVE-BOMBING TACTICS
You should start your dive from at least 5,000 feet up, preferably from 7,000
feet.  Below 5,000 feet, you may not be able to dive, aim, drop, and pull out
in time.  Starting your dive at an even higher altitude is fine.  Use your
speed brakes to limit the velocity of your dive; the extra time will give you
plenty of opportunities to correct your aim.

To aid you in your approach to the target, 'Battlehawks' provide you with two
special views.  The 'scan view' allows you to fly in one direction while you
look in another.  Use this to look down while continuing to fly level, and
thus adjust your course so you are heading directly towards the target ship.
Then switch to the 'straight down' view.  See the 'Keyboard Reference' section
to find out which keys control these views on you machine.

If you have lined up correctly with your target ship, it will eventually creep
into view below you.  This is the time to go directly into a dive.  You may
wish to switch on the camera to record your bombing run.  Then, extend the
speed brakes, select the forward view, and push the control stick forward into
a steep dive.  By watching your pitch indicator, you can judge how steep your
descent is.  A 70 degree dive (about 3/4 of the way down the indicator) is
ideal for your final approach.

A longitudinal attack approach, is best as you'll have a longer area for your
bomb to hit.  Attacking your target ship from the bow is better than from the
stern since the ship will sail directly away from you in a stern attack.  This
will force you to flatten your dive to catch it, and will also pull you out of
the relatively safe region directly over the ship.  Remember that it is more
important to surprise the enemy with your attack than to take the time to line
up for the perfect attack approach.  Always go directly for the ship.  With
practise, you'll be able to hit a ship with an angle of attack that's
perpendicular to its course.

In your dive, you may see that your target is not directly in front of you but
rather to one side or the other.  Correcting your aim just by banking is
dangerous since this could force you to slip or skid (moving sideways in
relation to the direction your plane is pointing).  To avoid this, push
forward until you are in a nearly-vertical dive - all the way down on the
pitch indicator.  Then you can rotate your plane by moving your control stick
left or right until the target is directly in front of you.  Pull back gently
to resume your 70 degree dive.

As you get closer to the enemy carrier, ignore the flak bursts.  Your mission
is critical, and you don't need the added problem of dodging flak while
aiming.  If there are any friendly planes joining you in the attack, it is
important to stick together and use defensive fire to protect each other.  But
once you have released your bomb, by all means splint up from the group, and
weave and dodge to make yourself a tougher target.

Fighter defence is another critical problem.  Dive bomber pilot Richard Best
would often shake a fighter plane by letting it approach from behind, then
going into a sharp turn just as it came within range.  This threw off the aim
of the fighter, causing it to miss.  Meanwhile, the rear gunner of his dive
bomber had a minimum deflective shot shot at the approaching enemy.

As you near 2,000 feet you should be ready to release your bomb.  If you are
in a 70 degree dive, your gunsight should be pointed slightly ahead of where
you want the bomb to fall to compensate for gravity pulling the bomb out of
the line of dive.  If you release too high, the bomb will fall longer and
stray further from your aiming point.

TORPEDO BOMBING

The best attack approach to make when your target is sighted is to stay low,
coming in just a few feet above the water.  By flying at a low altitude, you
risk disaster in a stall but you also make it hard for enemy fighters to
safely engage you.  As they dive in at you, they will need to attack at a very
shallow angle or risk crashing into the water themselves, since they are
limited to firing in the direction they fly.  Furthermore, your rear gunner
has no such limitation and can pick them off while you fly a steady course
towards your target.

To make the most of your rear gunner, make sure you are flying level, or at
least in a gradual climb with no loss of speed, before switching to the rear
view.  Since you're one person doing the job of two, you'll have to make sure
the plane is on a relatively safe heading before looking back.

As with dive-bombing, try to ignore the flak on your way in.  Staying low is
your best defence.  A higher approach may may give you more room to manoeuvre,
but it will expose you to more gunfire.  It will also force you to waste
precious seconds diving into position and slowing to torpedo release speed
before dropping your 'fish'.

To release your torpedo, you'll have to fly low, slow, and level.  if you're
flying an American TBF 'Avenger', with inferior torpedoes, you'll have to
stick below 100 feet and 100 MPH.  If you fly any faster or higher, your
torpedo will malfunction when it hits the water.  If you're piloting a
Japanese 'Kate', with its powerful 'Long Lance' torpedoes, you can fly up to
150 MPH at an altitude of 500 feet, but you should stay low anyway to avoid
anti-aircraft fire.

Because guns are arranged all along the length of a ship, your safest approach
is directly toward the bow or stern.  To maximise the chance of a torpedo hit,
the head-on approach (towards the bow) is strongly recommended.  Then, swing
to one side or the other to release your torpedo at a small angle off the bow.
Remember to turn and dodge once you've released the torpedo.

End.
