                                NARC

Typed in by MEGADRIVE of SCOOPEX UK.  Edited by PARASITE.


NARC SCENARIO
NARC - now you have a chance to infiltrate the MR BIG CORPORATION, the
scourge of the underworld. Outwit the army of body guards, gangs of
charisma-bypass patients in trench coats, the bullet brain with the build
of a rhinoceros and the breath of a dung beetle, packs of vicious canine
yuppies, the psychotic clown with the evil sense of humour - you'll die, but
not laughing!
But it's not all bad! You've got a chopper to back you up, a mean shiny
street machine, some heavy metal hardware and pretty neat moves. Hit the
enemy - and, finally, come up against the baddest, the biggist - Mr Big!

CONTROLS
This is a one two player game controlled by joystick or keyboard. When
playing a two player game both players may select a joystick, or one player
may select keyboard.

KEYS
Q         UP
A         DOWN
O         LEFT
P         RIGHT
LEFT ALT  FIRE

To fire missiles hold down the fire button/key for a short time and then
release it.
Quickly tap UP when standing to JUMP
Quickly tap UP when crouching to STAND
Quickly tap DOWN when standing to CROUCH
F1   -   PAUSE
F10  -   RESTART GAME
F9   -   TOGGLE MUSIC/FX
To arrest one of the enemy stand by them for a short period.

GAMEPLAY

LEVEL 1
Fight your way through the junkyard and arrest as many of the enemy as
possible for bonus points. Collect bullets dropped by the enemy to obtain
rapid fire. Then locate the door which will take you through the pipeline.

LEVEL 2
You are inside a subway station. Watch out for Coatmen coming out of the
train doors and try to arrest them. Locate the red safe card to return to
the junkyard.

LEVEL 3
Having successfully negotiated the subway you return to the junkyard where
you must seize cash, drugs, bullets and missiles, arresting people where
possible. A bonus will be awarded for all arrests achieved and for drugs and
cash collected.

LEVEL 4
Krak Street - you are on route to the evil drug cartel HQ. Here you will
meet Spike Rush who throws hypodermic needsles at you - if they hit you they
will inject you with drugs and you will lose strength. You must find your
way to the Krak Stop drugs lab.

LEVEL 5
You are inside the drugs lab where the Krak is made. The lab is full of
vials and beakers which you can destroy with missiles for bonus points.
Vicious dogs will block your path and attack you. Find the blue safe card to
exit from the lab.

LEVEL 6
Outside the lab you will find yourself on a bridge where you will meet Joe
Rockhead the drug addict. You can not arrest him, so you must blast him
before he gets near you. Make your way across the bridge you can jump into
passing cars ans drive them to cross more quickly.

LEVEL 7
One across the bridge you are back on the streets of Sunset Strip. Kinky
Pinky the mad knifeman appears here. He will attempt to kidnap the female
escorts. You need to blast Kinky in order to protect the escorts as you move
through this level. There are five doors from this level. One is locked and
will require a silver safe card and the other four lead to four sub-levels.
These are called The Kennals, Kinky's Big Top, The Swamp and The Scrap Heap.
One of the sub-levels contains the silver safe card you need but you will
have to find out which one.

LEVEL 8
You are outside the nursery where Skyhigh grows his drugs. Blast your way
through the gunmen to get to the entrance of the nursery.

LEVEL 9
Fight your way through the gunmen and Joe Rockhead and you move through the
greenhouse. Collect the illegal drug plants for an extra bonus but watch out
- some of them are booby trapped. Make sure you blast the gunmen as one of
them will be carrying the green safe card to exit the nursery.

LEVEL 10
Back on the streets you must make your way through downtown towards the
headquarters of Mr Big's evil organiztion KRAK. When you reach the building
and enter you will have to fight through the headquarters to reach Mr Big.

LEVEL 11
Once inside Mr Big's office he will attack you in his wheelchair. When you
finally manage to overcome him he will leave a gold safe card.

LEVEL 12
Mr Big, having recovered from your attack is now really angry! You will need
all of your skill and a good supply of missiles to finally defeat him. He
will then drop another gold card. You can use this to enter a special bonus
level.

STATUS PANEL
The Status Panel displays: drugs seized, cash seized, criminals busted,
number of bullets and missiles, score, lives remaining (depicted by helmets)
, safe cards collected, score required for extra life and scanner showing
sector and position of the enemy.

HINT AND TIPS
At the start of the game bust as many people as possible as this will bring
you points.

Cash and drugs are worth collecting for points but bullets and missiles are
more important as they will help you to survive.

If your bullet counter drops to one you will only be able to fire one bullet
at a time. Collect more bullets and you can use rapid fire.

Keep moving at all times to stop the baddies getting you in their line of
sight.

Try to save your missiles for later in the game - you will need them.

end.
