
                               BLOCKBUSTER


                           
                           
    First things first, this is NOT my original game.  The original
    idea was taken from a video machine whose name I don't remember.
    
How to Play:
-----------
    (Everything is joystick controlled).
    
    1. At the title screen, press the fire button to 'START PLAYING' or
       select 'NO MORE BLOCKS' to exit the program.
       
    2. The object of the game is to get rid of as many blocks as you
       can.  To advance to the next screen you must have no more than
       9 blocks remaining.  The number of remaining blocks is indicated 
       in the info column on the right of the screen.
       
    3. Use the joystick (up and down) to move the man, and press the
       fire button to push the block that he is currently holding.
     
    4. To get rid of a block, you simply have to push a matching block
       into it.  If your block doesn't match the block that you tried
       to bust, then you will get back the same block that you pushed.
       
    5. If you DO push a matching block, then that block disappears and
       you will get back the block that is behind (or below depending
       on the direction that the block was travelling) the one that
       disappears.
       
    6. The yellow blocks are like wild cards.  They can match with
       any other block.  You receive an extra yellow block every six
       screens.        
    
    7. Last minute addition, press ESC to exit game, (don't forget to
       click on the play area to make the window active!)

    It sounds a little more complex than it really is so just try 
    it out!
    
Hints:
-----
    The key to the game is understanding the formula behind which
    block will be returned to you after busting one out.

Miscellaneous:
-------------
    No sprites, no bob animations, just excessive _LVODrawImage calls. 
    It doesn't take over the whole machine, however, since it accesses 
    the sound registers directly (through an interrupt), I wouldn't run
    any other software that may use sound.
    
    
