
   CARRIER COMMAND:
   If you want to earn respect and finish Carrier Command without
   CHEATING... Your first and ONLY priority must be Carrier fuel so do
   this STRAIGHT away. Take as many Islands as you can with a full tank
   and make sure they are all linked together. Set the supply base to the
   Island you are at and wait for the supplies to arrive, then refuel.
   Now set the ACCB pod to high priority then set sail for the next
   Island.  When you take the Island, move your supply base here and
   resupply, from here you can start to add more things to your supply
   list foremost of which should be extra missiles for your Mantas.

    When the enemy carrier is within 2 islands of yours, make the next one
   defensive. Move on to attack either a neutral island between you and
   the enemy or the enemies closest island.

    For both the strategy and action games the following apply, always
   attack the islands command centre with manta missiles three or four
   hits will kill it making the island neutral.  Don't launch any walruses
   without air support, they won't last very long. Try to follow along
   behind your carrier with the supply base but watch out for sneak
   attacks by the enemy.

    The enemy carrier will often send mantas long range to attack one of
   your islands. If your island is defensive it will normally repel the
   first attack and by the time you get there the enemy carrier is long
   gone and already attacking another island. To counter this you can
   leave one or two Mantas (one with a comms pod) on a strategic friendly
   island. This seems to prevent the island being attacked and also
   allows you to react quickly to any attack within range (about 1.5
   squares) If you find you need these Mantas with your Carrier (not
   likely as you carry four spares anyway) you can always fly them into
   the ground (I feel sorry for the pilots!!).

    The enemy carrier is FAST (about the same speed as a manta flat out)
   so do not try to follow it. To destroy it, fire as many manta missiles
   as possible, crashing the empty manta into it afterwards. Get
   replacements from your carrier and repeat this again. (Kamikaze!)
   This tactic works best if you've managed to keep his supply lines cut
   for a while as he's normally out of fuel, and he can't run when he's
   damaged.

