Sewer Software presents yet another of the Dr.J docs...

                            FORGOTTEN WORLDS

SCENARIO
Emperor Bios, the God of Destruction has begotten eight evil gods who
were destroying all known civilisation.

Destroyed cities turned into Dust Ruins and became known as 'Forgotten
Worlds'.  But the spirit of peoples' angry minds created two super
warriors to fight back against the evil demons and rescue the world back
from Bios.

Their task is awesome for Emperor Bios is protected by three Demi-Gods
including The Golden Dragon, The God of War and The Paramecium.

GAME PLAY
Level 1--City-scape
Make our way to the entrance of the underground complex after battling
through the bleak city-scape.  Watch out for the spider like robot
guards. Once inside, gas pipes hinder your way, rupture these and
you'll burn to a crisp.  Finally, the first of the Demi gods approaches
using rubbish to guard its fragile mouth which spurts out deadly
mutations.

Level 2--Dust World
Beneath the murky waters in the sunken world of the dust Dragon lurk
deadly snakes who wait until the last moment to grab you with their
razor sharp teeth.  Gun emplacements line the way to the Dust Dragon who
can only be destroyed by attacking its heart.  Other parts of the body
under attack only serves to provoke its fighting fury.

Level 3--Hi-tech
A heavily armoured fortress surrounded by gun emplacements to protect
the shrine of the god of War.  Multitudes of lizards have failed to
prevent you getting this far, however, the God of War is ready to
destroy you as he stands dwarfing the fortress.  Only be destroying his
shoulder is there any hope.

Level 4--Gods Domain
Above the clouds lies the kingdom of Bios.  Sending forth monks of his
highest order Bios hopes to deter you in your quest.  Using evil
creations such as snakes and maggots to distract you whilst the monks
move in for the kill.  Defeat the monks and travel to the other side of
the forest where Bios awaits on his throne, ready to do battle.

As the game proceeds, extra weaponry can be bought at shops midway
through each level.  The weapons include:
     Homing Missiles
     Napalm Bombs
     V-Cannon
     Multi-Directional
     Laser
     Burner
     Armour (repels a number of shots)
     Booster (increases weapon power)

CONTROLS
                                JOYSTICK

Without fire button depressed:

                              Move up
                                 :
               Move Left---------:-----------Move Right
                                 :
                              Move down

With Fire Button depressed

                              Fire & Move Up
                                  :
               Fire               :            Fire
        Rotate Anti-clockwise-----:-------Rotate Clockwise
                                  :
                              Fire & Move Down

KEYBOARD
     F1--PAUSE ON
     F2--PAUSE OFF
     SMART BOMB  PLAYER 1--F1
     SMART BOMB  PLAYER 2--F2


