			GOLD OF THE AMERICAS

    `Gold of the Americas' is the latest strategic game from the
   Australian guys at the Strategic Studies Group at Drummoyne, NSW. The
   game is a multi-player strategic simulation of conquest and
   civilisation of the New World, the New World being the two American
   continents, from an European base, set over a three hundred year period
   from the fifteen hundreds to the eighteen hundreds.

    The game consists of thirty turns, ten years a turn, in which to
   explore new land, colonize territories and to defeat natives, all for
   the glory of your country and King. The game starts with an options
   screen, displayed in three sections which controls the direction and
   toughness of the game. The first section contains the usual, and
   necessary save/load functions and game start options. The second
   section defines the setting of the New World and Europe, with both
   historical and random options available. Historical gives places,
   names and some events a special flavour of realism, while random will
   throw all but place names right out the window ! An option to turn
   sound on/off is also given, if you get sick of the program accessing
   the disk for sound. The third section, and probably the most important
   section, defines the players and skill levels of the computer players.
   The countries that take part in the game are FRANCE, PORTUGAL, SPAIN
   and ENGLAND. They have four options for each - human, novice, normal
   or expert. If they are any of the last three they are computer
   players, with expert being the hardest. One of the best things about
   the options screen is that it can be chosen at any time, and the
   strength of one of the computer players can be subdued by changing its
   rating to a lesser one !!!!

    Initially, your turn commences with some of the territories on the map
   explored, but not colonized, and you are presented with a series of bar
   charts, showing items that your King has graciously donated to you for
   your use, and below this two treasury funds showing how much money you
   have to spend, with which to buy more of these acquisitions. The items
   that you can buy range from armies and colonists, to trading vessels
   and privateers, and slaves for your colonies. The two treasury funds
   are required, so that any money gained from illegal practices is given
   to you, and not to your king. The other treasury is subject to tax,
   which the king receives, and is quite often over one hundred percent,
   usually with an option to pay the rest out of your secret funds, with
   NO questions asked.

    During your turn, you must place items on the map in such a way, that
   you can make money, explore new lands and colonize existing territories
   in an attempt to win at the end of the game. One of the most important
   aspects of the game is to have large amounts of money, which to
   re-distribute back into your colonies, to make them prosper and remain
   loyal to you. One of the easiest ways to do this, is to command a very
   large fleet of trading vessels, galleons to protect them and privateers
   to loot enemy ships, in all the water ways available. These areas, the
   Pacific Ocean, the Caribbean Sea, North Atlantic Ocean and the South
   Atlantic Ocean are rich in money making ploys, and the gaining of a
   rutter - a book detailing all the trading of other countries in
   specific waters - can become very useful in an attempt to make money.
   All money made from the trading ships is taxable, and goes to the
   normal treasury, while money from privateering is not taxable, and goes
   into your private slush fund, and of course is always a welcome
   commodity.

    Explorers are very important, and should always be played on every
   turn. They are classified by a system of stars, with the more stars
   meaning the better the chance of succeeding on their quest. They
   fulfill three means, they explore un-explored territories, go on raids
   into other territories - and you can not raid an ally ! - and they
   also help when you try to invade a neighbouring country. Usually if
   they are successful, they return with money, which of course is
   useful !

    At the end of your turn, (always try to use as many of your supplies
   as possible), the computer players will have their turns, and you
   should look at what they do, so to cut off any advantages they might be
   creating for themselves. A computer player is very hard to beat if he
   gets a large proportion of territories in one general area of the map,
   especially if they are border to border !

    One of the hardest facets of the game is deciding how to run your new
   colony. You have four choices, and all serve different purposes, and
   have pros and cons for using them. You can do nothing with the
   colony, and it will probably die out very quickly, or you can put the
   boot into the colony, and try to make as much money as quickly as
   possible out of the colony, or you can placate the colony (ie. bribe
   the natives to work for you, which is tax deductible !) and get money
   from it that way, or finally you can try to establish the colony, by
   letting it take its own course, and will usually not produce much
   money, but rather tend to increase population and stability.

    If a colony's loyalty gets to zero, it will secede from you, and form
   an independent territory, and will fight fiercely for its freedom, and
   is very hard to invade (damn near impossible in fact !).

    The final part of the turn, is the receiving of reports from your
   colonies and other parties. This is the time you find out how much
   money you have accumulated from where, who has raided you - I usually
   raid them back, and occasionally come out in front ! and your tax
   account is given to you to pay.  Then you start again by buying more
   supplies, and responding to any problems your colonies might have,
   including attacking natives and restless colonists.

    The game will continue in this fashion for three hundred years, and
   all sorts of problems will be deliberately placed in front of you, and
   you will at times have problems with your colonies, becoming out of
   touch with your colony's wishes, as you try to expand. One other
   aspect to note is that in the last 50 years (5 turns) all countries are
   at war with each other, allowing a lot of land to exchange hands with
   invasions occurring almost every turn, and colonists becoming restless
   and seceding from their controlling countries.
