                 GOLD RUSH by sierra online.
                  password protection file...3/25/89
 
           by Rom Chip of ORACLE.  this password/codes file is typed in
using the manual from the APPLE IIGS, Im not 100% sure it'll work for Amiga
but just in case heres all that i could find for the 2gs version. ( i mean,
how much different could the two peices of software/docs be?)  you may
have to reboot a few times, eventually you'll hit one of the ones here!

  After working on this ware for about a day over the phone, I didn't get
too
far with it. News has it that there are several other versions it was also
released without being cracked. Although having the password protection
removed would of been great, I
 had enough of this compiled language. 
  However here's some stuff Maxwell Smart supplied for me and what I could
grab off the disk. Hopefully this will help you in playing the game. It's 4
disk!
Answers      Question
Bronze       The material of some Statue
Travers      Some building
Coon         Last name of some bartender
Quartz       Type of mining
Murietta     Last name of some mexican caught for discrimination
Brick        Banque Building _________ Stone
Massachusetts A. Sanpsor and Robert Broad shaw were from..
Taylor       New York Tribune
Perkins      Robber by Mexican named Carlos
Bates        "was it Tompson, or Johnson or _________"
barely       "mule fuel" sold at dollar a quart
Germany      George Leger came from
Kennedy      68 feet in diameter was built in 1912
Lincoln      Leland stanford mine
Darius (Ogden) Mr. Mills first name. I think it's only Darius.
Tahiti       Columbia originally destine for...
Kilanthus    Chines "Trees of Heaven"
Antoiny      French chief who cooked a cat that nobody could tell from a
rabbit
Butterfly    What mariposa means in spanish
Pumphouse    Building that bears the deat 1852 on it's corner stone
Savage       Last name of man who established a log trading post on the
south
             fork of the Merced River.
Fremont      Last name, of the first man who imported the first stamp mill  
 
              machinery to maripose
Bodie        Madame Elenor dumont died here. 
Williams     Last name of the person for whom Red Caslte was built for in
             1859.
Victoria     Type of architecture on Nabor Hill in Neveda City.
Hetty        Became the richest woman in the world as owner of Central
Eureka.
              Last name was Green.
Australia    Where did lolu Montez go when she left Grass Valley?
Empire       Name one of the oldest, and rishest mines in California which
is
             also one of the deepest too.
Farming      What 12,000 californians doing in 1852
Sutter       Last name of man who took 100 Indians and 50 Hawaiians
servants
Quartz       Type of mining requiring drilling, blasting and stamping
Spanish      Street where R.C. Downs lives
Yosemite     famous national park that still exists today 
