 DR.J
U.S.A.


                            SUPERBIKE CHALLENGE

                               By Broderbund

OVERVIEW

Superbike Challenge is a racing simulation game featuring 12 exciting Grand 
Prix races from the international circuit.

One or two players can race on the split-screen image:
  -> Bike #1 on the left side of the screen.
  -> Bike #2 on the right side of the screen.

Six bikes run in each race in the Atari ST versions of Superbike Challenge.  
Your computer controls the bikes that are not under player control.

A  player may control his bike with either a joystick or the keyboard or  a 
combination  of  the two for a two player game.   For  information  on  the 
joystick/keyboard  combinations  that  are  possible  read  the   Superbike 
Controls section.

There are three play options:
  -> Run individual races (five laps).
  -> Practice individual races (one lap) and then run them (five laps).
  -> Run all 12 Grand Prix races in the International World Championship.

You must complete all 12 Grand Prix races if you decide to compete for  the 
World Championship.   During your quest for the Championship, you can stop, 
save  the game on a data disk,  and restart the next race after each  Grand 
Prix race is completed.   A race ends after all bikes arrive at the  finish 
line.

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS:

1.  Place Superbike Challenge in Drive A.
2.  Startup your computer.
3.  Double-click on SB.PRG.

After  the  program loads,  use the arrow keys or your  joystick  to  cycle 
through the game options.   Then,  press Return or the fire button to  make 
your selection.

SUPERBIKE CONTROLS:

In the two player mode,  both players may use a joystick or one player  may 
use a joystick and the other the keyboard.

Go back to the selection menu:  Ctrl-M
Pause the game:  ESC

JOYSTICK          ACTION                              KEYBOARD

Up                Accelerate                          Up arrow
Down              Slow down                           Down arrow
Right             Turn right                          Right arrow
Left              Turn left                           Left arrow
Up + Fire         Shift up one gear (4 gears)         Up arrow + Return
Down + Fire       Shift down one gear                 Down arrow + Return
Right + Fire      Lean to the right                   Right arrow + Return
Left + Fire       Lean to the left                    Left arrow + Return

