                FACES : Tris III AMIGA MANUAL AMMENDMENT

Typed by Master Blaster at Thunder Dome.  Edited by PARASITE.

   These notes are meant to supplement the enclosed IBM manual. We
recommend reading this pamphlet thoroughly and referring to it when
necessary while you read the manual.


SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS (PG.5)
   FACES requires an Amiga computer with at least 512k RAM and a disk
drive. (Sound and music require 1 MB RAM). If you wish to play head-to
-head against another player, you will need a cable to connect the
computers or two Hayes-compatible modems (1200 baud minimum).

   We assume you are familiar with the basic terms and operations of your
Amiga computer and its operating system. If this is your first program for
your Amiga, be sure to read your owner's manual for complete instructions.

Important Note: When installing or running the game from floppy, never
remove the disk from the drive until the disk drive light turns off.

INSTALLING FACES TO YOUR HARD DRIVE (PG. 6)
   To load FACES to your hard drive, insert your backup copy of FACES Disk
1 into your drive when prompted for the Workbench disk. Double-clicking on
the Faces-Install icon will install the game to dH0:FacesDrawer. The
install program can also be run from CLI. To install to a particular hard
drive and directory type "execute Faces1:Install partition:directory/" and
then press return.

LOADING FACES FROM THE BACKUP FLOPPY DISKS: (PG. 7)
   To load FACES from the backup floppy disks, insert FACES Disk 1 into
your drive when prompted for the Workbench disk. If you're running from
Workbench, double-click on the Faces.x icon, or type Faces if you are
running from CLI. If you have more than 1MB RAM, Faces can be multitasked.

LOADING FACES FROM A HARD DRIVE: (PG. 8)
   If you are running under Workbench, enter the directory where you placed
the Faces program and double-click on the Faces.x icon to begin play.

   If you are running under CLI, enter the directory where you placed the
Faces program and type Faces to begin play.

CONFIGURATION SCREEN (PG. 11)
   Most of the items that are available on the config screen in the IBM
version are now located as menu items on the menu bar. Below is a list of
the items available on the menu, and where they are located on the menu
bar.

FILE MENU:
   About Faces (Right-Amiga 1) - This will bring up a window with the names
of some of the people involved in bringing FACES to you. Click the mouse
button to exit.

Abort Game (Right-Amiga A) - This option will exit your current game and
will return you to the high scores screen.

Restart Game (Right-Amiga R) - This option will exit your current game and
return you to the configuration screen.

Show Scores (Right-Amiga H) - This brings up the top ten screen.

Clear Scores (Right-Amiga T) - This erases all high scores from the top ten
screen.

Load Graphics (Right-Amiga G) - This acts as defined in the manual on pg.
12.

Unload Graphics (Right-Amiga U) - This acts as defined in the manual of pg.
13.

Save Options (Right-Amiga Z) - This allows you to save all your current
menu item selections.

Reset Options (Right-Amiga X) - This resets all the menu options to their
default settings.

Quit (Right-Amiga Q) - This exits the game.

OPTIONS MENU:
Pause (Right-Amiga P) - This pauses the game. Click "Continue" to resume.

Advanced Mode (Right-Amiga E) - This toggles the advanced mode on and off.

Sound (Right-Amiga S) - This toggles the sound effects on and off.

Music (Right-Amiga M) -  This toggles the music on and off.

Increase Level (Right-Amiga L) - This increases the level of play by one
level.

Change Control (Right-Amiga K) - This allows you to play using either
keyboard or joystick.

Confirm Choices (Right-Amiga C) - If this is checked, the computer will ask
you for confirmation on any menu choices.

One Player Mode (Right-Amiga V) - Choose this option to play the game solo.

Tournament Mode (Right-Amiga B) - Choose this option to bring up the
tournament window. Here you will choose the number of players, the names of
the players, and the amount of time the game will last.

Head-To-Head Mode (Right-Amiga N) - Choose this option to bring up the
communications window. Here you will choose the items listed on pages 19-20
in the manual.

STANDARD KEYBOARD COMMANDS (PG. 15)
The F1 key does not replay the current song. [P] pauses the game, but to
continue play, you must click on "Continue" in the dialog box. [S] no
longer turns the sound on and off; you must use Right-Amiga [S] to toggle
the sound and Right-Amiga [M] to toggle the music.

HEAD-TO-HEAD MODE (PG. 18)
   To play against another player head-to-head, you need two Amiga
computers that meet the aforementioned hardware requirements, or one Amiga
and either a Macintosh or IBM compatible computer. You will also need two
registered copies of FACES. We do not recommend multitasking when playing
head-to-head.

DIRECT-CONNECTING (AMIGA TO AMIGA OR AMIGA TO IBM):
1a. If you are connecting to an IBM (or compatible), check to see how many
    pins the serial port has (it will be either 9 or 25). Obtain either a
    9-pin to 25-pin or 25-pin to 25-pin null-modem serial cable to connect
    the two computers.

1b. If you are connecting to another Amiga, you will need a 25-pin to
    25-pin serial cable to connect the two computers.

 2. Connect the 25-pin end of your cable to the serial port on your Amiga,
    and the other end to the serial port on the IBM or Amiga.

CONNECTION OVER THE PHONE LINES (AMIGA TO AMIGA, IBM, OR MACINTOSH):
 1. Each player needs to have their modems turned on before loading FACES.

 2. When playing Amiga to Macintosh, the players will have to reconnect
    after each challenge.

HEAD-TO-HEAD SETUP
   To setup for head-to-head play, load FACES, then choose Head-To-Head
Mode from the Options menu. This will bring up a window with items similar
to the ones in the IBM version. The primary differences are below:

   Reset - Restores the head-to-head options to the default settings.

   Cancel - Exits this window without changing any of the options.

   Save - Stores these settings for later use.

   OK - Completes the setup and begins the connection procedure.


   During the connection process, there will be a series of dialog boxes
that explain what is going on between the two computers. When the
connection is established, the prompts "Get Set" and "Go" will indicate
that play is about to begin.

   If you are having problems connecting to the other computer, we
recommend that both players lower their baud rate settings to 9600 or
below.

LOADING/UNLOADING GRAPHICS (PG. 21)

CREATING CUSTOM PERSONALITIES:
   Note: Before you begin to create custom faces, be sure to make a copy of
the template file (named TEMPLATE.IFF). This is so you will not
accidentally write over your original file.

STEP 1: LOADING THE TEMPLATE
   To begin creating your own faces, run a graphics program that accepts
IFF format files (like DeluxePaint). Next load in the template from your
Faces directory.

STEP 2: EDITING THE TEMPLATE
   Follow the same procedure as described in the manual.

STEP 3: SAVING THE NEW FILE
   When saving the new file, be sure that you are saving it in IFF format.
You are now ready to load your graphic file into the FACES program.

LOAD GRAPHICS (PG. 23)
   To load new graphics for a particular level, pull down the option "Load
Graphics" from the File menu. A window will appear from which you can
select the graphics file to be loaded in. The button labeled "Parent" will
bring you up one directory from where you were. After choosing a file to be
loaded in and the level where you want to place it, click on the OK button.
If you then begin play on any level other than the one where you placed your
custom graphics, your custom graphics will not be seen until you reach that
level.

End.
