                             PUFFY'S SAGA

Typed in by PARANOIMIA.  Edited by PARASITE.


QUICKSTART
You see the title screen.  Press the button on the joystick connected
to Port 2 to continue.

You see the Game Overview screen.  This screen shows the items you'll
see in the game.  Press the fire button to continue.

Next you see Character Selection screen.  Press the joystick button
to activate a box (it will turn from red to green).  Move the joystick
up or down to select Puffy or Puffyn and click the joystick button.

Click again to continue to level 1.

CAUTION
NEVER remove a disk while the disk drive light is on - this
may destroy all the information on your disk.  If you must remove a disk
while the disk light is on turn off the computer first.

CONTROLS
Use a joystick or mouse to move your character.  Move the joystick in
any direction and your character will move in that direction.  To shoot,
press the fire button on your joystick.

When your character dies, the screen gets dark.  If you press the fire
button on your joystick, the game immediately begins again on the first
level without showing the GAME OVER and HIGH SCORE pages.

KEYBOARD CONTROLS
Esc   Exits
P     Pauses the game, press the spacebar to continue.

For player For player  Magic Goms                 Action
in Port 1  in Port 2    required
---------- ----------  ---------- ---------------------------------------
   F1          F6          1      Lets you change Puffy to Puffyn
   F2          F7          1      Gives you the Fire Power bonus for
                                  several seconds.
   F3          F8          1      Gives you Extra Speed bonus for
                                  several seconds.
   F4          F9          1      Gives 100 extra life points
   F5          F10         1      Lets the player observe a large section
                                  of a level for a few seconds.  Once you
                                  press this key, take your joystick and
                                  move the game towards the zone that you
                                  want to observe.  While you're in this
                                  mode, your character will be protected
                                  by Insensible and Invisible modes.
Left-Shift Right-SHift     0      This lets you abandon the current game
                                  and start over.

LOADING AND SAVING A GAME
Saving a game or saving high scores takes place on the game disk.  If
you plan on saving the game, make sure your original disk is write-
enabled (set the tab to the closed position).  You can only save a game
at the end of a level.  When you see the screen that says "Level x" and
PRESS FIRE TO CONTINUE, press Del and the game will be saved to the
game disk.  You can only save one game per disk.

When you first boot the program, the "Level 1 press fire to continue"
screen appears.  If you have a previously saved game, you can press
Help to load that saved game.

If your score is among the top 10, you'll see the High Score screen.
To enter your name next to your score, move the joystick until you see
the letter you want and then press the fire button.  You must enter
a character for each space, so if you've entered your entire name and
there are spaces left over, find the blank space and enter that until
you're at the end.  If you want the high score information saved make
sure your original disk is write-enabled (set the tab to the closed
position).

ICON SUMMARY

  Magic Item        Time                       Effect
---------------- ------------       ---------------------------------
Extra Speed      limited            lets you move quicker
Fire Power       limited            exhale fire/scare enemies
Super Shots                         wipe out groups of enemies
(6-8 shots)      unlimited
Repellency       limited            scare/repel enemies
Invisibility     unlimited          makes you invisible
Transportability unlimited on level jump over objects; pick up certain
                                    items;
Insensibility    unlimited on level protects you from all enemies

    Enemies         What to Do                Effective Magic Items
-------------- --------------------- -------------------------------------
Ghosts         Shoot several normal  Fire, Repellency, Invisibility
               shots
Acid Puddle    Dies only when it     Fire, Repellency, Invisibility
               touches you - avoid!
Dragons        Avoid!                None
Flying Dragons Avoid!                None
Snakes         Avoid!
Eyes           Shoot to immobilize   Fire, Repellency, Invisibility
GRR            Shoot several normal  Repellency, Invisibility
               shots
Hurricanes     Dies only when it     Invisibility
               touches you; Imprison
               by luring into closed
               area.

You can run into other icons; it's up to you to avoid them or investigate
them.  Whatever you do, be careful!


OPERATION MANUAL

OBJECT OF THE GAME
As Puffy or Puffyn, your goal is to advance from one level to the next.
To finish a level, you must collect all the PAD GOMS (powered dots)
scattered around a level.  How many levels are there?  We'll let you
find out for yourself!

THE CHARACTERS
You can choose from Puffy or Puffyn.  Puffy is more robust and his shots
are more powerful, while Puffyn keeps the objects that she picks up
longer.

These differences are important depending on the level, certain levels
are easier to get through with Puffy while others are easier to get
through with Puffyn.  You can even switch between the two on a level.
To do this, you must possess one Magic Gom (see "Magic Gom" under Bonus
Items for more details).

STAYING ALIVE
Your energy diminishes when you're attacked by an enemy and as time goes
by.  There are onjects spread around the levels to help you repel or kill
enemies.  And to keep from passing out and dying from hunger and fatigue,
you can eat.  To eat, pick up the joints of lamb (drumsticks) on the
floor.  You can also find these in certain chests.

Your character can fire an unlimited number of "normal" shots, which is
effective against some enemies.  To survive, you'll need to pick up and
use the bonus items you find scattered along the pathways.

THE ENEMIES

THE GHOSTS
These are the enemies you'll run into most.  The best way to kill them is
with Fire Power.  You can also kill them using a normal shot, but you'll
have to shoot several times. The Ghosts are immobilized for about a
second with the first shot, the following shots should kill them.

Each time you kill a Ghost, you get two life points.  Each time a Ghost
touches you, Puffy loses 30 life points and Puffyn loses 40 life points.
TIP: You can avoid Ghosts bu using Fire, Repellency, or Invisibility.

THE ACID PUDDLES
Almost as plentiful as the ghosts, the Acid Puddles are something to be
feared because they can't be destroyed.  Normal firing won't affect them
at all and the Fire Power option will only immobilize them for a few
seconds.

If an Acid Puddle touches you, it takes 70 energy points off Puffy and 90
off Puffyn.  Once an Acid Puddle touches you, it will die.  Acid Puddles
are hampered by certain obstacles like Ghost corpses and Stun tiles.

TIP: You can avoid Acid Puddles by using Fire, Repellency, or Invisibility.

THE DRAGONS
The Dragons only fire at you if they see you.  Only their flames are
dangerous, their bodies are harmless.  The flames can cross walls and
burn you.  Fire, Repellency, or Invisibility are useless against the
Dragon.

TIP: They always stay in the same place, so don't provoke them just seek
another passageway.

THE FLYING DRAGONS
Like the Dragons, the Flying Dragons are invincible.  You'll find them
in corridors at least three squares wide.  All the Flying Dragons go in
the same direction.

TIP: Position yourself under them and they won't be able to detect you.
Then advance in the same direction that they're going.

THE SNAKES
You'll find Snakes in groups.  They move around either vertically or
horizontally.  No weapon can harm them or immobilize them.  Only the
head of a Snake is dangerous.  You can step on their tails without
any problem.  A Snake will bite you even if you possess Invisibility
and Repellency.

TIP: Snakes move in waves.  Just pick the right moment to pass.

THE EYES
These enemies stick by your side.  Once an Eye spots you, it won't leave
you alone.  The Eyes cannot be killed.  The most you can do is
immobilize them for one or two seconds by shooting them.  You'll have
to be patient to get rid of them.

Each time an Eye touches you, it'll cost Puffy 10 life points and Puffyn
15 life points.

TIP: When an Eye starts moving towards you, fire on it and move one
square away.  Shoot it again before it wakes up and then move away far
enough so it no longer detects you.

Eyes won't attack if you possess Fire, Invisibility, or Repellency.

THE GRRS
These are truly fearsome enemies because they move around while they're
invisible.  When they get close enough to you, they suddenly appear and
will start shooting at you!

There are two kinds of GRRS: male and female.  When the male spots
Puffy, he travels without any hesitation straight towards Puffy and
shoots flames.  The female GRR is a bit calmer; she shoots here, there,
and everywhere without aiming at anything in particular.

Only normal shooting or Super Shots can destroy the GRR.  When you shoot
the female GRR, she transforms into a male GRR.  You'll have to shoot
once more to destroy it.

BEWARE: Don't fire at the Repellency bonus - it will transform it into a
GRR.

TIP: Lure GRRs into a corridor one square wide then they will become
confused and stay in the corridor.  GRRs are vulnerable when you possess
the Super Shot option; fire when you spot the white wisp of smoke
indicating their arrival.

Repellency and Invisibility will scatter the GRR.

THE HURRICANES
These are extremely dangerous fire tornadoes!  You must avoid them at
all costs - they take 500 life points off Puffy and 700 off Puffyn.
They will only die once they've touched you.  And watch out!  One
Hurricane could be hiding behind another.

Once a Hurricane detects you, the chase is on.  They won't stop until
they've touched you or until they've been imprisoned again.

BEWARE: Don't shoot at a Fire Power icon or it'll turn into a Hurricane.

TIP: To imprison a Hurricane, lure it into a place that it won't be able
to get out of (there's almost always such a place nearby).  If there isn't
one, you can always construct such a place by digging a tunnel in a series
of chests.

Use Invisibility to disperse them.

BONUS ITEMS

EXTRA SPEED
This bonus keeps you from being slowed down, which can happen when you
cross through something like the Stun tiles.

There bonus lasts for a limited time after you pick it up.

FIRE POWER
This bonus lets you exhale fire for a few seconds, which frightens
some enemies.  If you accidentally shoot at the Fire Power bonus,
you create a Hurricane that lasts for a short while.

The Fire Power bonus has a time limit so you must use this option shortly
after you pick it up.

SUPER SHOT
This bonus looks like a normal shot, but is a lot more powerful; it can
destroy an entire formation of Ghosts, chests, etc.  Each Super Shot bonus
gives Puffy six shots and Puffyn eight shots.  You can carry several Super
Shots at the same time.

There is no time limit for using your six Super Shots.

REPELLENCY
Repellency lets you frighten all enemies EXCEPT the Flying Dragons and the
Hurricanes.  If you accidentally fire at the Repellency bonus, you'll turn
into a GRR (so avoid shooting it!).

When you pick up the Invisibility option, the Repellency option no longer
works, except against the GRR.

This option lasts for a limited time after you pick it up.

INVISIBILITY
This option makes you invisible to almost all your enemies.  Although
you're invisible, you're not protected from damage; if an enemy touches
you by accident, you'll lose as much energy as if you were visible.  When
you take a shot, you become visible.

This option lasts through the entire level.

TRANSPORTABILITY
There is a powerful bonus that lets you pass through certain walls.  If
you try to pass through a wall that's at least two squares wide, the second
square will be destroyed.  Transportability also lets you open chests,
doors, and secret walls without using a key.

BEWARE: Once you possess Transportability, it's more difficult to take
another.  You'll notice that your character will jump over certain
objects as well as over walls.  There is, however, a trick to picking up
certain items while you're carrying Transportability - we'll leave it
up to you to discover it!

This bonus is lost once you pick up the Insensibility option.

Transportability has no time limit; you can keep it for a whole level.

INSENSIBILITY
This bonus is definitely the most powerful of all the bonuses.  It makes
you untouchable to all your enemies!

There's no time limit on Insensibilityl it lasts for an entire level.

MAGIC GOM
These blue pastilles (or dots) are very useful.  When you pick up one or
more Magic Goms, a lot of things can happen.

With ONE Magic Gom you can get one of the following...
o The Fire Power bonus
o 100 extra life points
o The Extra Speed bonus
o Change from Puffy to Puffyn, or vice versa (this is useful because on
certain levels it's better to be Puffy while on other levels it's useful
to be Puffyn!

To use your Magic Goms, see the Command Summary Card for the keys that
activate your choice.

BEWARE: If you fire at a Magic Gom with normal firing or Super Shot, you
will change from Puffy to Puffyn, or vice versa.

MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS

PAD GOMS
These are the pastilles (dots) that you must collect in order to finish
a level.

Don't forget: Sometimes a Pad Gom will appear under a chest or a
destructible wall - you'll still have to pick it up in order to finish
the level.

JOINTS OF LAMBS (DRUMSTICKS)
Gobble these up to get life points!

BEWARE: If you fire on a roast lamb using normal fire or Super Shot,
it will be immediately replaced by a Ghost!

THE KEYS
The keys let you open doors and chests.  You can carry a maximum of 12
keys.  Economize them - certain levels need them all for you to finish.
If you have 12 keys and you try to pick up one more, the key you try to
pick up will be destroyed.  Don't pick up keys if you already have 12;
you may need it later.

THE CHESTS
Use a key to open a chest.  The Transportability bonus also opens
certain chests.

THE DOORS
You can open doors with keys.  The Transportability bonus also lets you
go through doors.

If you wait long enough, all the doors of a level will open up
simultaneously this can be dangerous if the doors are keeping enemies
imprisoned!

THE TRAP DOORS
They let you open certain doors, secret passageways, and invisible
walls.

BEWARE: You might free enemies by passing over a trick trap door.

THE STUN (SLOW DOWN) TILES
The Stun tiles will immobilize you for a few seconds when you pass
over them.  Take the Extra Speed option to avoid being slowed down by
these tiles.

Ghosts are not hamperd by the Stun tiles.

TIPS
Don't despair if a level seems difficult; there's always a solution
to finish it without losing lots of life points.

You don't have to kill certain enemies to escape them.  Some can be
tricked; you can lead them into a corner and they will stay there.

Observe certain passageways carefully before entering them.

Don't let yourself be tempted by bait that's too enticing!  You can
definitely get too much of a good thing!

Certain passageways might at first appear impossible to enter - look
carefully to see if there's an item nearby to which might enable you to
pass without any problems.

Don't forget what weapons you possess.  For example, if you have a Super
Shot, remember that if you shoot, you'll destroy everything in your path.
That's not always a good thing!  If you hit a drumstick with Super Shot,
it turns into a Ghost.

Some options can be dangerous if you pick them up at the wrong time.
For instance, if two or three GRRs are imprisoned by a small wall near
you and you pick up the Invisibility bonus, the GRRs will escape from
their semiprison; once the bonus is used up, they will all come straight
towards you!

Beware of trap doors that look too enticing.  They often open up walls
imprisoning GRRs, Hurricanes, or a huge group of Ghosts!

End.
