                                 TEAM SUZUKI

Typed by SIDEWINDER of LSD.


TEAM SUZUKI is the result of months of close co-operation between Gremlin
Graphics and Team Suzuki, both of whom wanted to make sure that this product
would be the closest thing to real bike racing that could ever be experienced
on any home computer.  Whatever technical or circuit information Gremlin
Graphics wanted, Team Suzuki were more than happy to provide, from
straightforward general technical information to videos of the circuits taken
from a camera strapped to the side of a bike.  This high level of exchange
has allowed Gremlin Graphics to produce what we believe is the ultimate
motorbike similator, and we feel once that you have shered the Team Suzuki
experience, you will agree.

KEYBOARD CONTROLS

HELP            Toggle between normal and alternate controls
CTRL            Change up a gear (normal mode only)
SHIFT   Change down a gear (normal mode only)
SPACE   Look over shoulder
M       -       Toggle riders on/off
D       -       Display damage
C       -       Toggle bike dashboard on/off
P       -       Display position
1       -       Front view of bike
2       -       Back view of bike
3       -       Fixed position camera view
4       -       Camera view. Angle relative to bike
5       -       Camera view. Angle relative to north

KEYPAD (In view modes 4 & 5 above)

2        -       Rotate up
4        -       Rotate left
6        -       Rotate right
8        -       Rotate down
Up Arrow -       Zoom in
Down Arrow -     Zoom out
Q        -       Quit qualification/race
ESC      -       Quit game completely

PLAYING TEAM SUZUKI
Obviously, the aim of Team Suzuki is to be the fastest driver in the world,
and to finish in first position over a season of sixteen races around various
circuits chosen from some of the most exciting and challenging tracks in the
world.  It won't be easy, with seven other racers all with the same aim, but
it will be an absorbing and demanding challenge.  Reckon you're up to it?
Only one way to find out...

THE MAIN MENU
Although Team Suzuki is more of a simulation than an arcade game, the
controls and menu systems have been designed to make working your way through
the game as straightforward as possible.  As a consequence, most of the
information you will need is presented on the screen, and to choose any
particular option, just move the mouse pointer over it and hit the left
button.
On loading the game, the first screen you will be faced with will offer you
the choice of motorbikes by engine size, and the choice of practise, the
single race, or a full season.  The smallest bike, the 125cc, has automatic
gears, and therefor the easiest to control.  The larger bikes, as well as
having manual gears, are faster, and so winning on these bikes is more
difficult.
Practise will take you straight to the grid of an empty circuit, where you
will be able to familiarise yourself with the controls of the bike.
You will also make your choice of control methods on this screen.  There are
three sets of controls.

NORMAL CONTROL
As well as being able to choose from the options menu, pressing the HELP key
will toggle between the normal and alternative controls.  Normal controls
are:
Right Mouse button: Increase Revs.
Left Mouse button:      Decrease Revs.
CTRL:           -       Change up a gear (not used on 125cc.
SHIFT:          -       Change down a gear (not used on 125cc.

ALTERNATIVE CONTROLS
Right Mouse button and roll mouse forward:      Increase Revs/Accelerate.
Left Mouse button and roll mouse forward:       Change up a gear.
Right Mouse button and roll mouse backward:     Brake.
Left Mouse button and roll mouse backward:      Change down a gear.

JOYSTICK CONTROLS
        Joystick controls are also available, and are as follows:
Left:   -       Steer left
Right:  -       Steer right
Up:     -       Accelerate
Down:   -       Brake
Up and Fire:   Change up a gear
Down and Fire: Change down a gear

'OVER SHOULDER'
In any mode, there is an option to look over your shoulder and check out
who's approaching you, or catching up with you.  This is done by pressing the
space bar.  Releasing the space bar will return you to normal virepoint.

SINGLE RACE
Choosing the single race option will take you to another menu with the
following options:
EXTRA TRACKS: This option is included to allow tracks other than the sixteen
already included to be loaded in.  These tracks will be made available from
Gremlin Graphics at a later date.

QUALIFY:  Go straight to the grid to qualify.  Qualifying takes place before
any race.  Whatever time you achieve in qualifying, you will qualify for the
race, but your position on the grid is determined by your fastest lap time,
even if you crash or quit.

LAPS PER RACE:  The default for the number of laps per race is five, but this
can be changed, allowing up to fifty laps per race.  The number is changed in
jumps of five laps each time, and is changed up by clicking on the right
mouse button, and down by clicking on the left.

TRACK:  this allows you to change the track that the single race will take
pace on.  Use the left and right mouse button to move through the tracks
until you find the one that you wish to race on.
You will also be given the option to enter your name on this screen at any
point by simply typing it in and hitting the return key.

FULL SEASON
If you choose this option, then the choices you will be offered are as
follows:

LOAD GAME:  You will be given the oppportunity to load and save your position
after every race should you wish to do so.  This option allows you to load
up a saved position.  As well as saving your own data, this will store data
for all the other riders.

SAVE GAME:  This option allows you to save a position to disk after any race.
The instructions on how to do this are presented on screen.  Although the
option to save to ram is available, this can only be used three times a
season.

EXTRA TRACKS:   A for single race
QUALIFY:        A for single race
LAPS PER RACE:  A for single race
On this screen the current standing of the racers will also be indicated
after each race has been completed.  Again you will be given the option to
enter your name on this screen.  Type your name and it will automatically be
entered into the league table.

RACING
Once you are in a race, an indicator in the top left corner will indicate
your current lap time, your best time underneath this, and the number of laps
to be completed underneath this.

BIKE DAMAGE
Should your bike collide with another bike, or move too far off the road you
will sustain a certain amount of damage.  A message will be flashed up onto
the screen indicating the nature of the damage, and should you have too many
collisions during one race yor bike will become so damaged it will not be
able to complete the race, and your race will be over.

POSITION INDICATOR
As you complete a lap in a race, your position will flashed up onto the
screen as well as when you overtake an opponent.

OTHER OPTIONS
Team Suzuki is probably the smoothest scrolling polygon racing game ever, but
believe it or not, it can be smoother and faster.  Here's how.  As well as
working out the position of all the polygons and then drawing them to the
screen, the computer also has to draw your dashboard sprite.  If you think
you can manage the race without the dashboard sprite, then try it.  Beacuase
the computer doesn't have to think about the dashboard, it can spend more of
it's time making the polygons smoother.
As the default option, the other bikes are left riderless in order to keep
the game smooth and fast.  However, there are riders available, and these
can be toggled on and off.  Although the game isn't quite as smooth with
riders on the other bikes, it does heighten the realism.  Of course, which
conbinations you prefer to use when playing Team Suzuki is up to you.  The
keys to alter the options are as follows:

M       -       Toggle Riders on/off
C       -       Toggle bike dashboard on/off

These options can be toggled at any point during the game, including whilst
you are racing.  This allows you to experiment to find the option with which
you are most comfortable.

VIEWPOINTS
As well as the standard first person perspective point of view, the bike can
also be watched from several other points of views when in practise mode.

1       -       Front view from bike
2       -       Back view from bike
3       -       Fixed position Camera view
4       -       Camera view angles relative to the bike
5       -       Camera view angles relative to North

Views four and five can be altered by using the following keys on the keypad.

2       -       Rotate up
4       -       Rotate left
6       -       Rotate right
8       -       Rotate down
Up Arrow key   - Zoom in.
Down Arrow key - Zoom out

These options only apply during practise, and during racing you are limited
to the options 1,2 and 3 only.

ACTION REPLAY
After a race the last fifteen seconds of a race are recorded and are shown
following the conclusions of a race.

OTHER KEYS
Q               -       Quit qualification, or race you are currently competing in.
ESC             -       Quit the game completely.
Backspace -     Pause.  Any key will continue the game.
<               -       Darken the screen.
>               -       Lighten the screen.
P               -       Display position
D               -       Display damage

End.
