                        WORLD TOURNAMENT GOLF

Typed by MEGADRIVE of SCOOPEX.  Edited by Parasite.


TOURNAMENT GOLF
Here it is!  The ultimate golf game. And you've been invited to play on three
world class courses against fifteen international professional players. It's
golf that includes practice, match and tournament play, all of which adds up
to hours and hours of comelling golf stragety. So prepare yourself with a
few practice games in order to beat the odds. Odds are, if you can't master
a hook or slice, keep cool around a water hazard, drive that ball for some
real distance or sink a putt on an uphill green, then you can forget about
winning first place. You'll never don the champion golf blazer. Doesn't
sound like much, but those who wear it, wear it with pride.

To help you qualify for tournament play, You'll be teamed with a caddy whose
sage advice could mean the difference between over-hitting a wood instead of
going for the iron. But the final decisions are definitely up to you. Choose
your clubs carefully, check the direction and velocity of the wind, isolate
your point of direction and finally set the power of your swing. Now you're
ready to hit the ball. And each swing really does involve that much thinking,
so exercise that big muscle between your two ears; you're going to need it.

GAME PLAY SELECTION
Press the fire button during the Title Screen to view the game select
screen. Hrer you can choose from two headings: Tournament or Pracitce. Under
the heading Tournament your option is to start a new game. Under the heading
Practice your options are 1-player, 2-players, match play or practice. There
is also an option for changing the music. To choose any of the above, use
the joystick or mouse to mark the arrow to your desired selection and press
the fire button. If using the joystick, move the pointer and use the left
hand mouse button to select.

Although there exist a few different golf games, the object of the game
remains the same for all. Before you lies eighteen holes which form a golf
course. You must try to sink the golf ball into the hole on the green in as
few shots as necessary. The lower your score, the better you're playing. A
detailed description of each game selection follows.

SOUND SELECT: Background Music (BGM)
Once the sound select option has been chosen, the sound select screen will
be displayed with the four numbers of the different music. To select a
different piece of music, simply move the mouse pointer or joystick outline
box over the required number, and press either the joystick fire button or
the left hand mouse button. For no musical accompaniment, select off.

TOURNAMENT PLAY
When you begin a new game in Tournament Play, twelve rounds follow. Most of
them will be played as stroke play, but the seventh and eleventh will be
played as match games. You will play the course alone with the exception of
your caddy, as the computer plays out the remaining 15 players games. Their
results will be displayed on the score screen. To win the tournament, you
must achieve a lower score than all other 15 players. If there is a tie, you
will enter into a sudden death play-off during a match game; however, during
stroke play, positions will be assigned by the computer without play-off.

LEVEL INCREASE
During tournament play, you'll be rewarded foe winning rounds or scoring at
least in the top 8 positions. Each time you're rewarded, your level of
expertise will be increased by one. With each higher level achieved your
power and skill of play will be increased and the advice of your caddy will
improve. Remember if you score anywhere between position 8 or higher, this
is what you will receive.

POWER:
The flying distance of your ball is extended.

SKILL
Slicing and hooking, under your control, is easier with a higher level
number.

CADDY LEVEL:
Your caddy's advice level will increase  in four stages.

STAGE 1: Your caddy will be able to tell you the remaining distance to the
hole. This information is available to the start-up player.

STAGE 2: In addition to the above, your caddy will give you the distance to
the target point during the tee off.

STAGE 3: In addition to information from Stage 1 and 2, your caddy will
explain the influence of the wind and how to master it.

STAGE 4: In addition to the information from Stage 1, 2 and 3, your caddy
will explain how to master the strategy of the lie.

After you've entered the New Game selection a series of screens will appear
before you actually begin playing. If you do not wish to participate in any
of the available selections, simply press the joystick or mouse button
repeatedly to begin play. However, to make selections follow these
instructions.

NAME ENTRY SCREEN
Here you can enter your name by using the mouse or joystick to select the
appropriate letter from the alphabet, then press the joystick fire button or
the left mouse hand button to enter your selection. To correct a mistaken
entry, choose either Back to move the mouse pointer or joystick box back, or
Next to move the pointer forward. Once the pointer is stationary, your
joystick or mouse will control either the mouse pointer or joystick box on
the alphabet. Select your corrected letter and press the fire button or the
left hand mouse button. When finished, select End and press either the left
hand mouse button or the joystick fire button to proceed to the next screen.

Note: When either one or two players are playing and choose not to enter a
name, they will be referred to as Play-1 and Play-2.

IDENTIFICATION CARD SCREEN
Here a brief description of tournament play is revealed. When you have read
the screen comments, please press the joystick or mouse button to exit the
screen.

CLUB SELECT SCREEN
Here you can select a variety of fourteen clubs to use on the course. To
select, move the arrow to the Select mode and press the fire button or mouse
button. With the joystick or mouse, you can scan the available cluds by
moving the mouse pointer or joystick outline box, and by pressing either
fire on the joystick or the left hand mouse button you can choose a set of
clubs. When finnished, move the mouse pointer or the joystick outline box
back to OK and press fire or the left hand mouse button. Keep in mind, the
PT (putter) is mandatory. Now you can exit the screen by selecting End.
However, you may want the computer to select for you. When you first enter
the screen, the selected cluds are indicated by a yellow asterisk. If these
clubs are satisfactory, simply press the fire button or mouse button to exit
the screen.

Since you're only allowed a certain number of clubs, you'll have to delete
the computer's selection before you begin your own. As you delete, the
window to the right will keep a tally as to how many clubs you can now
choose, adding and subtracting as you make your own selections. To delete
the computer's selections, move the mouse pointer or the joystick outline
box to the undersirable club and press fire or the left hand mouse button,
this will delete the asterisk and made an additional selection possible.

SG PROTOURNAMENT SCREEN
Here the current players and their earnings are displayed from the Winner
down to 16th place. To begin, press the left hand mouse button or fire one
more time for a final message from the screen to appear and then once again
to approach the first tee off.

PLAYER 1 AND PLAYER 2 PRACTICE
Under the Practice heading you can select a practice stroke game for either
one or two players. Since the games are practically identical, we'll explain
both modes of play together. Both games involve one round of golf. Complete
the course in as few strokes as possible and win the round against your
opponent during a two-player game; during one-player game, play against par.
Now let's learn about screen signals. To input information, use the joystick
or mouse and fire or the left mouse button to confirm selections in the
exact same manner as previously explained in the Tournament Play section.

NAME ENTRY SCREEN: Here you and your opponent can enter your names on
separate screens. If you're playing with only one joystick or mouse. Player
1 will enter first, select End and then Player 2 may enter his/her name.
When Player 2 is finnished, select End.

If this is a one-player practice, you'll be greeted by a Name Entry screen
for one only. Please follow the same instructions for yourself only.

CLUB SELECT SCREEN: If you're playing a two-player game, an additional
window will appear on the screen indicating which player is currently
entering a selection. Player 1 will always enter first. Player 2 will follow
when Player 1 has entered End by pressing fire on the joystick or the left
hand mouse button.

The following addresses both one and two player games.

During a practice game. You'll allowed to select clubs made from various
materials; Black Carbon, Glassfibre (Fibreglass) and SuperCeramic. Which are
additional sets that Tournament Play winners are awarded. To select clubs
made from any of these matrerials, first  choose the Select mode, then use
the joystick outline box or mouse pointer to highlight your material of
choice. Now press fire or the left hand mouse button to enter your selected
material. The joystick outline box or mouse pointer will now be used for
club selection. Delete as many clubs as necessary from the computer in order
to enter your selections following the original instructions under
Tournament Play. When you've finished selecting clubs constructed of that
material, enter OK.

Once again, you'll have to enter select mode, highlight your material of
choice and enter it as before with the joystick outline box or mouse pointer
to move over the appropriate clubs. Follow the same delete and enter
procedures as above until you have selected all the appropriate clubs in
their desired materials. After selecting End, press the joystick or mouse
button to select the shown options.

LEVEL AND COURSE SELECT SCREEN: This screen selects the level of expertise
and the course to be played. Move the joystick outline box or mouse pointer
to highlight the level and course. If using a mouse, to select the required
level move the mouse over the increase or decrease arrows on screen, and by
pressing the left mouse button this will increase or decrease the level
number displayed. Pressing fire on the joystick, or by moving the mouse
pointer over the central icon (between the increase and decrease icons) and
pressing the left hand mouse button will select the shown options.

For a two-player game using joystick or mouse, Player 1 will select his
level and course after pressing fire or the left hand mouse button. Player
2's level select will appear, the course will defualt to Player 1's choice,
now you can change Player 2's level of expertise. Now follow these
instructions to input revised numerical values for either a one or
two-player game.

To increase the level of expertise up to 12, pull the joystick to the
desired position. To decrease the level of difficulty down to 1, repeat as
above. If using the mouse, put the mouse pointer on the arrows to increase
or decrease; clicking the left hand mouse button on the centre icon will
select. To enter your selection, press the joystick or the left hand mouse
button. Now advance to the course selection. And remember, the higher level
at which you practice, the more power, skill and caddy advice you'll be
granted.

Simultaneous with level selection is the selection of the golf course. By
moving the joystick outline box or mouse pointer to the left or the right,
you can choose between the three available golf courses. The different
courses will be highlighted when the joystick or mouse displays them for
selection. To choose a course, simply leave it highlighted when you press
the joystick or mouse button to advance to the next screen. Regardless of
how many people are playing and whether joystick or mouse are being used;
thecourse to be played will be played will be the last course highlighted
when the joystick or mouse button is pressed to advance to the next screen.

MATCH PLAY
Match play can be played between either one or two players. If you are
playing alone the computer can be assigned to the role of player 2. Match
play is played hole for hole, so the player who achieves the lower score on
each independent hole wins that hole. The player who wins the most holes
out of 18 wins the round. Victory and loss of match play is decided at the
point when neither tie nor reversal of the situation is possible. When one
player is ahead by one one hole it's called 1-up with the value to reflect
the actual lead. In the event of a tied game result victory is awarded by a
sudden death play-off from the first hole. When one player reaches 1-up the
game ends. First make your selections.

NAME ENTRY SCREEN
If you are playing alone, enter CPU for player 2 and the computer will act
as your apponent. During a two-player game, enter your names in the same
manner as was instructed in the player-1 etc, Section and press the joystick
or left hand mouse button to advance to the next screen when you are
finished.

CLUB SELECT SCREEN
When choosing clubs, a window will appear on the screen to indicate which
player is currently making their selections. Player 1 will select first. The
availabilty of the clubs and materials is the same as during a practice
game. Please follow the same instructions outlined in the sections above to
choose the appropriate clubs.

LEVEL AND COURSE SELECT SCREEN
The instructions for changing the level of expertise and selecting a course
can be found under the same heading in the player-1 etc, section above.
Please refer to it now. During a one-player game. You will be responsible
for setting the computer selections.

PRACTICE
During a practice game there is no win or lose so two people can play one at
a time with one joystick or mouse. Practice is play on a hole-to-hole basis,
the whole purpose of which is to orient yourself with the various courses
and develop a winning strategy for each hole. Here is an opportunity to set
wind conditions and levels of expertise so you will really be prepared for
Tournament Play. Now prepare for your first hole.

NAME ENTRY SCREEN
As typical of all other modes of play, you must enter your name first.
Please follow the previous instruction.

CLUB SELECTION SCREEN
Selecting clubs and their material of construction is the same here as in
Practice and Match Play. Please follow the previous instruction noted above.

THE PERFECT SWING
Your swing will execute perfectly as soon as you learn to control the power
gauge by observing its movement. The actual swing takes pressing either the
joystick button or the left hand mouse button three times consecutively
because you must first activate the power guage.

When you are ready to swing press either the joystick button or the left
hand mouse button once. This is known as the beginning of the take back. At
this time, two pins on the power gauge will start to rise.

When you press either the joystick button or the left mouse button a second
time, the pin on the left hand side will come to a stop. This indicating the
strengh of your swing, so only stop it when you have reached the level you
need since it will start to descend as you complete your swing.

When you press either the joystick button or the left mouse button for a
third time the pin on the right hand side will come to a stop. This
indicates the height your ball will soar to during its flight. At this time
your swing should be complete.

End.
