                     PSYCHO WARD!     V1.5
                                  By Robert Sedler

Please read this entire document before attempting to play
PsychoWard. Although PW is very straight forward and simple to
play, this DOC provides detailed instructions on how to make PW
behave like a good game should.

System Requirements:

Psycho Ward SHOULD run on any Amiga with at least 1 MEG of RAM.
However, you need Workbench 2.0 or better to SAVE your game.
You will need a blank formatted floppy to save your game onto.

PLAYING THE GAME:

To play Psycho Ward, simply open the DWPsychoward drawer and
double-click on the DWPlayer Icon. 
When the DREAM WEAVER (the excellent program with which this game
was created) Title screen comes up, Double-click again.
The game will initialize itself and then begin proper.

The game introduction will appear in the TEXT box. When the word
MORE appears at the bottom of the text window, simply double-
click anywhere in the text window to continue reading text. This
will happen many times while playing PW.

When entering a room, any objects will be displayed in the room
objects window. Clicking on ROOM OBJECTS will bring up the
INVENTORY window, which shows what you are carrying. Clicking on
Inventory takes you back to room objects.

There are 6 Icon based actions: Examine, Use, Take, Drop, Push,
Pull, Open and Close. The rest of the actions are custom made.
Simply click on an action and then an object (either in Inventory
or Room Objects) to do things in the game.

To move about: Simply click on one of the six directions to move
that way in the game. (oooh, that one was difficult)

Selecting STATUS from the menu will display your current score
and the number of moves you have made so far.

If you need to see the description of the room you are in
repeated, simply click on the name of the room in the top right
hand corner.

When you gain 100 points your game is over...as in you win.

Saving and Restoring:

To save game, simply select SAVE from the menu, and save to a
blank floppy like a normal Amiga file. There is insufficient room
on the PsychoWard floppy for saving games.

To restore a saved game (Here's the tricky part).
Although Dream Weaver is a fantastic Program, I have noticed a
few little bugs when restoring a saved game from floppy.
If you follow these directions step by step, you should not have
any problems restoring a saved game:
1) Make sure Psycho Ward is in one drive and your save disk in
the other.
2)Select restore.
3)Drive will read game disk for quite a while, when finished
click on drawer.
4)select the drive # of the save disk.
5)Double-click on the DWSave filename. DO NOT select OK. I have
had problems when doing this.
6)Be very patient, game will restore.

Helpful hints:
EXAMINE EVERY OBJECT!!! Many times, the description of the object
will provide an important clue on how it should be used.
(Remember though- Examine and SEARCH are 2 different things)

Although not a DEATH-HAPPY game, PW does have a few nasty
surprises up it's sleeve so lets be careful out there. Save your
game before trying something creative and/or stupid.

With the exception of the deaths. I have tried to make PW so that
there are no Impossible situations to get out of. EXAMPLE: Don't
worry about using an object up that you will need at a later
point in the game. You will, however, have problems if you drop
an item in a room where that item was the key to entering it. In
other words, once you are in the car, don't lock your keys in.
Does that make sense to you? I didn't think so.

PSYCHO SPECS:
PSYCHO WARD is freeeeeeeeeeeee software. Which means, if you like
it, and want to make copies for other people. you have my
blessing. The only thing I ask is that you drop me a postcard 
(or E-Mail) and tell me what you think of the game, who you are and
what your interests are. Please send no many as I can't keep piling it
all up much longer (joke). My address is:
  Robert J. Sedler
  RR3 Box 440
  Norwich NY 13815

Or, drop me a message via E-Mail at
 torgo@norwich.net

If you make copies of this game the following files MUST remain
in the following directories for it to work properly.


DWPsychoWard (Main Dir)
 DWPlayer
 DWPlayer.info
 Read_me_first!
 Read_me_first!.info
 DWBkgd.pic
 DWData
 DWfont.font
 -1.pic  -2.pic   -3.pic   156.pic   157.pic   158.pic   159.pic
 160.pic   171.pic   172.pic   173.pic   174.pic   175.pic
 186.pic   187.pic   188.pic   189.pic   280.pic   281.pic
 293.pic   294.pic   295.pic   296.pic   306.pic   307.pic
 308.pic   309.pic   310.pic   311.pic   312.pic   313.pic
 322.pic   323.pic   324.pic   325.pic   326.pic   51.pic
 52.pic    53.pic    67.pic
 DWFont (dir)
   8
 DWsounds (dir)
   hummer.snd
   laugh.snd
   magic.snd
   tick.snd
   water-drip.snd
   wormhole.snd
   yell.snd

*Again- all files and directories
 MUST be in the DWPsychoward directory for this game
 to function properly.

And Finally....

If anyone is still reading this doc I just want to say a few
things. 

I have always dreamed of making an AMIGA text adventure. Thanks
to the MEGA talented Duane Bernloehr, I can finally at least
make an attempt at one. I hope my game is entertaining. I put my
heart into it, (literally, HA!). 
If you like PW, why not look for "Wonkii", a strange attempt I
made at writing a Text Adventure in BASIC a few years back. It's
not a fantastic game, but my friends all seemed to like it. 
At least thats what they told me, maybe they lied.
Also, see end of this doc for other game plugs...

Special Thanks to:

-Duane Bernloehr. The man with the power. The Amiga community is
forever in your debt.

-The Binghamton Amiga Users Group. Before I met you guys I was 
floundering in a sea of computer confusion. I still am, but at 
least I got off a good game. 

-Joel, Mike, Dr. Forrestor, Frank and the bots (MST3K). You guys 
keep me going day after day in a world gone insane. Thanks for
loaning me Torgo.

-Rich Cummings. Phone calls, night after night after night  
after.........and sometimes during the day. 

-RUSH, Blue Oyster Cult, Triumph, and Queen. A constant beat for
my ever typing fingers.

-........and Karen. A better half than I ever deserved. Sorry I 
was on the computer and the phone, night after night after night
after night after night............

-..and last but not least, RAIDER. woof, old buddy, woof.

************Version Changes**************
Version 1.0   4/?/94
Original version, runs perfect under  Workbench 2.1 but I found
out from my Ace playtester (only playtester) Rich that it has
problems under Workbench 1.3. 

Version 1.3   4/23/94
This version will run perfectly under WB 2.1 AND Semi-perfect
under WB 1.3. When running under WB 1.3 text no longer tries to
escape out the right side of the text window. This has to do
with a font size difference between 1.3 and 2.1. Can I explain
this? Gosh no. All I know is I fixed it.

There is however one problem still existing in this version for
WB1.3. When running under WB1.3, the game will save without a
problem, but when trying to RESTORE a saved game the program
exits to workbench. I have no answer to this problem but in
future versions I may be able to solve this. So for now, if you
only have WB1.3, you can play it sort of cartridge-game-ish; that
is,if you remember what you did to get to a certain point, you
will be able to play it a little farther each time. 
WB1.3 users, please bear with me.

I also changed a keyed exit is this version that started to bug
me at night. I can't tell you which one because it would give
away one of the puzzles. In addition I fix a bunch of typo's in
the text.

Version 1.4   5/5/94
Feliz Cinco de Mayo!
This version is basically the same as
V1.3 except that I fixed a bunch of typo's that my lovely
assistant Karen spotted while playing V1.3 (I really am a little
too dependent upon my word processor's Spell Checker). This
version was edited using Dream Weaver 1.11 which Duane Bernloehr
just sent me (instead of 1.1). Sorry 1.3 users, but I still can't
get a version out that will RESTORE on 1.3. Not to get preachy on
you, but maybe it's time to upgrade the old system. When I
upgraded from 1.3 to 2.1 it was quick, painless and probably the
best move I ever made next to getting more chip ram. In the
immortal words of Monty Python's John Cleese, "It opens doors,
I'm telling you."
I have also changed a few of the puzzles in this version so that
the game is a little "pickier" when you try to use an object.
No more using objects that you aren't holding! Have fun!

Version 1.5  7/28/94
Lot's of changes in this version from 1.4, ....OK, just a couple
of changes,.......OK, just 1 change. The only difference between
this version and 1.4 is that this version sports a new and
improved "Psycho Ward" title screen. Huge amounts of thanks must
spill forth onto Mr. Mark Pousser of The Binghamton Amiga Users
Group for sending me the groovy "Fontage" for my game. Oh, by
the way Mark, you spelled "Psycho" wrong. That's ok though, we
all mayke miztaykes.

Also Available:

Look for my other Dream Weaver game;
I RESCUED ELVIS FROM COMMUNIST ALIEN JERKS
which is also available at this time






2/25/95  SedlerSoft
