
         === Monster ===

   In this game, you are being chased by a herd of monsters. (Good thing
it's just a game, then.) The monsters will try to follow you wherever you
go, and the only way to get rid of them is to lure them into holes in the
ground.

   Before you start the game, you get to decide what you want the level to
look like. The relevant keys are listed at the bottom of the screen. Using
the arrow keys, you can adjust the size of the level. Think of it as moving
the bottom right edge of the playing field: the right arrow key makes it
wider, the left arrow key makes it narrower. The keys 1 and 3 control the
number of walls to hide behind: 1 for fewer walls, 3 for more walls.
Similarly, the keys 4 and 6 control the number of monsters (and holes to
lure them into). Every time you change one of these settings, a new level
layout will be created randomly. When you are satisfied with the level, hit
Enter to start playing. The Escape key quits the game.

   During play, you control the yellow P with the arrow keys. The monsters
are represented by M's and the holes by O's.

   The monsters, as it happens, are blind and rather stupid. This doesn't
mean that they are easy to fool, however. Although blind, they can smell you
from a certain distance, even from the other side of a wall. When you get
close enough, they will start following you. They move in a predictable
manner which would take too long to describe completely. The rules should
become clear after a couple of rounds of playing. Suffice to say that a
monster will only fall down a hole if it has no other way of getting closer
to you. In other words, the hole must be horizontally or vertically between
you and the monster. The hole is then removed and replaced with a wall, so
each one can only be used once.

   There are four ways in which a game can end. The only way to win is to
get all the monsters into the holes. One can lose either by getting caught
or by falling down a hole oneself. It's also possible to abort a level with
the Escape key. If you win, you get a score which depends on the size of the
level and the number of monsters and walls.

   Regardless of how the game ended, you then have three options, which are,
as usual, listed at the bottom of the screen. If you lost, you may wish to
use the R key to replay the level. Otherwise, you may wish to try a new
level. The N key will take you back to the level editor. Escape quits the
game.

   If a level proves too difficult to complete in one go (and that seems to
be the case more often than not), one can use the S key during play. This
saves the current position, so that after the game, the R key takes you back
to the most recently saved position rather than the starting position. The S
key can be used any number of times during a game, but it does reduce your
score somewhat.

   Finally, note that the level settings are stored between sessions, so
they will always remain as you last left them.

