                                 SKID ROW

                                 presents

                 WIZARDRY -----|- BANE OF THE COSMIC FORGE

                         ATTENTION AMIGA PLAYERS:

           IF YOU ARE PLAYING BANE OF THE COSMIC FORGE FROM FLOPPY
                 DISKS YOU MUST MAKE A COPY OF DISKETTE "A".

         IT IS PREFERABLE THAT YOU MAKE COPIES OF ALL THE DISKS THAT
             YOU RECEIVE IN YOUR PACKAGE.  THIS WILL PREVENT ANY
               ACCIDENTS FROM HAPPENING TO YOUR MASTER DISKS.

WARNING 

Please save your game often.  And keep a backup copy of that save game
around.

If you're playing on your hard drive, save your game to floppy every now
and again.  If you're playing from floppies, save your games to
alternating formatted diskettes.  Why?  You never know when modern 
technology will meet a magnet thus eliminating all your hard work.

         Bane of the Cosmic Forge - System's Reference Card
               Amiga 500, 1000, 2000 2500 and 3000
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Installing Bane of the Cosmic Forge on a Hard (Fixed) Disk

Bane of the Cosmic Forge has its own installation program which will
help you to install Wizardry on your computer's hard disk.  Bane requires
approximately 2.5 megabytes of disk space; please be certain you have
this space available.  You must run the installation program from the
CLI.  Follow the directions below:

   1.  Boot your Amiga so that your system configures and recognizes the
       hard drive.

   2.  From Workbench, invoke the CLI or SHELL by double-clicking on its
       icon.  It may be located in the System drawer.

   3.  Insert Disk E in drive DF0: and type DF0:WINSTALL DH0:BANE and
       press RETURN.  Bane will create its own directory and begin the
       installation.  If you have more than one hard drive partition,
       such as DH1:, and you wish to install Bane on that hard drive,
       then you would type DF0:WINSTALL DH1:BANE instead.

   4.  When the installation begins, the install program will ask you to
       confirm your choice for a directory.  Press Y or N and RETURN.
       If the program is unable to create the directory or find it due
       to some error, it will abort the installation procedure.

   5.  Bane will now ask for the "E" disk.  It should already be in your
       drive.  Press C to continue or Q to quit, then press RETURN.

   6.  When Bane has copied its files from the E disk, it will next ask 
       for disk A.  This procedure will be repeated for each of your
       disks.  Insert the disk in drive DF0: and press C and RETURN to
       continue.

To Play Bane of the Cosmic Forge

You may boot Bane of the Cosmic Forge from the floppy DF0:, run it from
the CLI, or double click on its icon from the Workbench menu.  If you're
not playing off the hard drive, we recommend you boot Bane from the
floppy to free up as much memory as possible.

From the Floppy:  Insert disk A into drive DF0: and turn your computer 
                  on. 
From Workbench:   Double click on the BANE hard drive icon.  Then 
                  double click on the BANE icon.  If you're playing
                  off the floppy disks, just double click on the BANE
                  icon.
From the CLI:     Change your working directory to the Bane directory.
                  (For example, CD DF0: for floppy users, CD DH0:Bane
                  for hard drive users.)  Type BANE and press RETURN.

Adjusting the Stack Setting Before Play

If you play Bane from the CLI, you must adjust the size of the stack
each time you play.  Normally, the stack is set at 3000 or 4000.
However, for Bane, you'll need at least 8000.  To change the stack
from CLI, type STACK 8000 and press RETURN.  If you click on Bane's
icon or boot the disk itself, the stack will be set for you.

Just for Hard Drive Users

Bane of the Cosmic Forge requires approximately 1 megabyte of RAM memory
to run.  However, it understands that system overhead takes up
approximately 50 to 75K.  To free up as much memory as possible, it
may be necessary to remove any resident memory programs from your
startup sequence.

Nice to Meet Ya

AmigaDOS takes a few seconds each time you put a disk into the drive to
get acquainted with it.  On occasions where disk switches are required,
Bane will deliberately pause to give AmigaDOS time to log the disk.
However, if it does not recognize your disk in the time allotted, it
will repeat the request for the disk.  Just click or press RETURN to
continue.

Pull No Disk Before its Time

Pay attention to the disk light when switching disks.  If you pull
a disk out too soon, you may end up writing a vicious dragon over
your level one characters!  When the light goes out, you may remove
one disk and insert another.

Save Game Drive

You may save your game to any disk drive.  Once you have entered
Wizardry, select the "Disk" option.  Next, select "Game Configuration".
Using the UP and DOWN arrow keys, move to the Save Game Drive option.

     Hard Disk:  To save the game to your hard drive, leave this
     field blank.  If you leave this field blank, Wizardry will save
     your game to the default directory (the same directory where you
     installed the program).  If you wish to save the game to a
     different directory, you should enter the device name and
     directory name followed by a forward slash.  For example,
     DH0:BANE/.  If you would like to save it to another directory or
     path, the directory must exist beforehand; Wizardry will not
     make the directory for you.

     Floppies:  If you'd like to save your game to a floppy drive,
     just type the device name of the drive, such as DF0: (or DF1:).
     If you have a second disk drive (DF1:), we recommend you use
     this drive to save your games to reduce disk swapping.  Before
     you save a game, however, make sure your save game disk is
     formatted ahead of time.  We recommend you save your game to
     alternate floppy disks on a regular basis for backup purposes.
     So, just in case something happens to your save game, you've got
     a backup.

Replacing "Replace"

In the manual, you will find reference to an option called "Replace".
Using this command, you could replace one of your more experienced
party members with a newly created, level 1 character.  This option
has been removed from the game.  In effect, "Replace" defeated the
essence of Bane of the Cosmic Forge... creatively directing a single
party throughout the entire adventure.  Therefore, this option is no
longer available so you can enjoy the true essence of Bane of the
Cosmic Forge without compromise.

                              SKID ROW

