             

                           -INFESTATION MANUAL-
             Released and written down by Sleaze of Miracle
    Only to be read if you are playing the Miracle cracked version!


QUICK KEY GUIDE:
                                                    
GENERAL CONTROLS

F1 Open/close door of any kind (if locked a key will be needed). The door
immediately in front of you has priority; if there is no door in front then
the door behind gets second priority.
F2 Use item,eg, log on to computer, throw switch, etc.
F3 Lift/lower helmet's visor. Default is helmet lowered.
F4 Infra-red on/off. Default is off (if fitted)
F5 Reconnaissance/tactical. Default is tactical.
F6 Recentre view.
F7 Drop gas cartridge.
F8 Suit and helmet power on/off. Default is on.
F9 Fast turn on/off. Default is off.
F10 Crouch/stand. Default is stand.

HEAD-UP DISPLAY COMMANDS

All HUDs default to off.
N1 Navigation HUD on/off.
N2 Status HUD on/off.
N3 Inventory HUD on/off.
N4 Life support HUD on/off.
N5 Scratch pad on/off.
N6 Atmosphere analysis on/off.
N7 Avionics on/off.

WHILE IN THE LIFT

CURSOR UP Raise lift.
CURSOR DOWN Lower lift.

WHILE ON THE MAP TERMINAL

The joystick's North, South, East and West control your movement over the
layout. If the fire button is held in the North and South then control zooms
in or out respectively 

MOVEMENT CONTROLS 

The joystick's North, South, East and west control your forward, backward,
turn left and right respectively. If the fire button is held in tactical mode,
then the shoulder-mounted laser will be fired. Otherwise they control raise,
lower, tilt left and tilt right.

MANNED MANOEUVRING UNIT (MMU)

N.B Can only be used on the surface on the moon
CURSOR UP Take off.
CURSOR DOWN Land.
All other movements by joystick. Use firebutton for extra thrust.

OTHER KEYS

HELP Pause/resume game
ESC Quit game (only while paused)
TAB Sound on/off.



YOUR MISSION

You are Kal Solar, agent for the interplanetary Federation. Your mission is
to eliminate the threat from hostile alien lifeforms. You will travel to
Xelos in your interplanetary cruiser, and once there you will land and 
enter station Alpha II.

Your main objective is to seek out the incubating alien eggs and destroy 
them. This is done by sealing them inside their incubation areas and
poisoning them with cyanide gas. Once all the eggs have been destroyed
you must progress to the power source at the heart of the complex.
This is a huge shaft which taps power from the moon's core. Once you have
located the power source you must work out how to set it to achiece critical
mass, thus atomising the planet. When this is done you must escape before 
the moon explodes. Go to the surface and press ESC.

EXPLORING THE COMPLEX

Your view of the complex is shown in high-speed solid three-dimensional
graphics. You are free to move throughout the complex as you wish, although
we recommend you take time to make a map as you go.
Movement is achieved using the joystick.

Your support systems work in one of two modes. RECONNAISSANCE, in which
you are free to look around at the surrounding area, or TACTICAL, in which
your pulse rifle is active and can be fired.

JOYSTICK                          

without fire button             with fire button (Reconnaissance only)

FORWARD                         LOOK UP

TURN LEFT TURN RIGHT            TILT HEAD LEFT TILT HEAD RIGHT

REVERSE                         LOOK DOWN               
                            
These controls will enable you to explore the level you are currently on.
But remember that the complex is spread over several levels.

LIFTS 

You can move between levels using the lifts. These can be identified by
the double sliding door embellished with a diamond shape. Pressing F1
will open or close the nearest lift door. Once inside the lift, and with
the doors fully closed, press CURSOR UP to take the lift up a level and
CURSOR DOWN to take it down.

SHUTTLES

You will also come across shuttles. These provide fast transport in straight
lines between two locations on one level. The shuttle doors can be made to
open and close by pressing F1.

VENTILATION TUNNELS

As well as exploring rooms and corridors you can also move around the complex
by using the ventilation tunnels. The accesses to these are covered by 
grates. Pressing F1 will remove the nearest grate. You will have to crouch
in order to move through the tunnels. Press F10 to crouch, and once 
again to stand.

RADIATION AREAS

Some areas have become irradiated. In some cases these have been 
automatically sealed off with lead doors, and indicated by a radiation
warning symbol. Prolonged exposure to radiation will prove fatal.
When your visor is sealed your life expectancy is longer.

NETWORK TERMINALS

Scattered throughout the complex are special Network Terminals which can
be accessed to show the layout of the complex, and the location of eggs
and hostile systems. To access a terminal, move in front of it and press
F2 to log on - provided you have the relevant entry key. Once you have 
logged on use joystick to scroll around the map. Press F2 to log off.

BLAST DOORS

These are special air-tight doors which can be permanently sealed. 
Pressing F1 will lock the nearest Blast Door. Be sure that you want to 
do this however. Once secured a Blast Door can not be reopened.

YOUR EQUIPMENT

You enter the complex in a sophisticated pressurised body suit complete with
a helmet, oxygen pack, battery pack, and cartridge pulse rifle,
intravenous food, etc.

MANNED MANOEUVRE UNIT (MMU)

When activated, this allows you to fly above the surface of the moon.

THE HELMET

The helmet, as well as providing protection, is a vital source of
statistical information. If you are in an area with a breathable atmosphere
you can conserve your oxygen supply by removing the helmet.
This will also allow you to see more, but at the expense of the helmet's
built in display. Press F3 to remove or replace helmet.

Inside your helmet the following information is displayed:

OXYGEN - A graph shows your oxygen reserves. This is the stuff of life, 
so conserve it whenever you can.

TEMPERATURE - This shows your body temperature which will usually be
proportional to the exterior temperature.

RADIATION - This shows the level of radioactivity in the vicinty. 
Avoid prolonged exposure.

COMPASS - This display your bearing releative to the moon's magnetic north.

HEAD UP DISPLAYS (HUD)

There are up to seven displays which can be overlaid on your view. 
Using the numeric keypad the displays that can be called up are:

NAVIGATION : Key N1:Displays additional navigational data.

STATUS : Key N2: Displays current mission status and number 
of egges destroyed.

INVENTORY : Key N3: This lists the items you are carrying, which will
mainly be any items you have found.

LIFE SUPPORT : Key N4: Displays life supports status
(Heart rate, liquid food level)

SCRATCH PAD : key N5: Displays your scratch pad. You can make notes on
this for future reference.

ATMOSPHERIC ANALYSIS : Key N6: Displays radiation level and 
atmosphere status. 

AVIONICS : Key N7: Displays all your vital flight dynamics for MMU

SIGHTS : This is the default display when in tactical mode. When the grid
is displayed within the sights you are in tactical mode. Sights are used
for aiming your pulse rifle. They can be reselected by pressing
the key for the HUD currently displayed.


THE SUIT
The suit maintains your body temperature and supplies you with food and water
in an intravenous form. The suit also houses your oxygen and battery
in a backpack

WEAPONARY

You carry a high power pulse rifle. This is attached to you back-pack and
draws its power from the battery. Use sparingly.

ADDITIONAL EQUIPMENT

Scattered throughout the complex are various items of equipment left by
the scientists which you can make us of:

COMPASS - When found this can attached inside your helmet and aids 
navigation.

INFRA-RED SCANNER - This will highlight items that are not normally visible
to the naked eye, such as laser alarm systems. When this is attached the
entire display is shown in red.

VARIOUS KEYS - The are a number of keys which provide access to various 
lifts, shuttles, and rooms. You will have to experiment to discover 
which fits what.

EXTRA OXYGEN - This is in the form of crystals which your suit can process
into oxygen. They are very scarce.

There are many other pieces of equipment waiting to be discovered
in the game.

HOSTILE FORCES

You will have to contend with a number of hostile forces within the complex.
These include:

ALIEN EGGS - These go through several stages of growth, increasing rapidly
in size. They are normanlly harmless but will release a deadly nerve
gas just before they hatch.

SENTRY DROIDS - These patrol certain rooms and will automatically attack
anything that enters. You will almost certainly have to get past them
on occasions. They can be disabled with your pulse rifle.

WELDING DROIDS - These patrol the ventilation tunnels checking the seals.
They will not attack, but due to the high voltage charges they carry
contact in fatal.

THE MOTHER ALIEN - No data...

