Interphase - The Easy Way   (Amiga Format - Jan 91 pg 176)

1) Always clear the level you are working on of fighters and alien
   generators before tackling the puzzles.

2) When placing tractored objects into the wireframes, check the alignment
   from two sides to get the 3D positioning.

3) If you spot a red arch, remember its level number for future reference.

4) Always attempt to get al your energy back before finishing a level and
   entering a tunnel to the next one.

5) On the blueprint, you may have to deliberately set off robots in order
   to clear them from an area the girl will cross later on.

6) When attempting to destroy fighters which home in on you, either fly
   fast and shoot them using REAR VIEW, or fly backwards very fast.

7) When playing a level for the first time, make a note of which items
   trigger which robots and build up a picture of how the level is con-
   structed. There are no random elements in the robot control aspect of
   the program. Remember to take a good look at the blueprint at the start.

8) If you have to cross an electrified floor, use a nearby robot to de-
   activate it first.

9) Use the TURNTABLES to redirect problem robots to other areas of the
   building which will benefit you.

10) Don't be afraid to get the girl to back-track, this is essential for
    some puzzles.

11) Some camears and pressure pads are red herrings. Learn the ones that
    are relevant to the route you need.

12) Set up areas of the blueprint before you need to. This will save time
    flying from one component to another when time becomes short.

13) Many levels are simpler than they appear. Try the obvious first.

14) Beware of loose robots doubling back if you wait too long.

15) Map out the level if it appears complicated and mark relationships
    between objects that you may need.

16) When you are experienced, don't waste time reading Kaf-E's messages:
    they are mostly the same for each item.

17) On the top floor, neutralize all risks (robots in the building and
    fighters in the 3D world) before examining various vaults.

18) Some of the fighters on later levels are very intelligent: learn their
    peculiar strategies and develop methods to counteract them.
    For example, the blue flying ray knows which component you are
    interested in be checking its NAVCOM status. Either destroy it
    (carefully) with a missile, or when you have found the component you
    need, NAVCOM onto something else to distract it.

19) The `bird fighter' always circles ahead of you and can outrun your
    missiles. If it proves to be a problem, LOCK and FIRE a missile at it,
    then `catch' it and hold it in position with a tractor beam, thereby
    allowing the missile to catch up and destroy it.