
                             MOEBIUS COMMANDS

TO BEGIN PLAYING MOEBIUS

Place Disk A in drive and turn on power.
Press any key or click mouse button to exit demo mode.
At prompt insert Disk B into drive and press a key.
From Book of Moebius menu, press "A" to Add Disciple.
Name disciple by typing in name.
Press "T" to Train disciple. 

NOTE:   Disciples must be trained in Sword Fighting, Hand to Hand Fighting, 
and Divination,  i.e., they must be successful in one session of each type, 
before an Adventure may be started.   Once a disciple has been trained, you 
may Begin an Adventure by pressing "B" at the Book of Moebius menu.
     A copy of Disk B,  the Book of Moebius,  can be made to save disciples 
for archival purposes or to permit the playing of separate  games.   Please 
refer to your Atari-ST owner's Manual for the correct copy procedure.

                              COMMAND SUMMARY

As  you move about the realms of Moebius,  you will see that there are  two 
ways to control your disciple's movement.

1.   Use  one  of  the two sets of eight movement  keys  indicated  in  the 
section:  MOVEMENT.
2.   Using  the  mouse,  click  directly on the play window  to  move  your 
disciple in the direction indicated by the cursor arrow.

NOTE:   All  menu options in Moebius may be selected by pressing the  first 
letter  of  the  desired command or by clicking with  the  mouse  upon  the 
appropriate icon.

B - Bare Hands.  Put sword away.
C - Communicate with character.  Press appropriate initial letter when   
    Communication Menu appears.
D - Open or close door.  Use movement keys to indicate direction to door.
E - Equip with sword, i.e., hold sword at ready.
F - Cast Fireball.  Available only in shrines.  Use movement keys to choose
    direction when indicated.
G - Get item or fresh water.
H - Hit with hammer if one has a hammer.
L - Listen.  Disciple's effective Listening radius will improve with level
    increase.
M - Magic.  Choose appropriate initial letter when Magic Menu appears.
    NOTE:  "Utter Prayer" requires a period of fasting after which "Utter 
    Prayer" must be selected again in order to activate a prayer.  "Stop
    All" will end all magic in use at the time.
Q - Quit & Save game.  Up to four Adventures may be saved.  The Book of 
    Moebius will be automatically updated during this time and when moving
    between realms.
R - Restore at last saved position.
S - Swing sword; to cut vegetation or attack adjacent character.  Use 
    movement keys to choose direction when indicated.
T - Throw shuriken, if one has shurikens.  Use movement keys to choose
    direction when indicated.  NOTE:  If an opponent is right next to you, 
    your shurikens will not be very effective.
U - Use item in Inventory.  Will turn torch on/off, if torch is chosen.
    When Inventory Menu appears, press the appropriate initial letter to
    choose item.


                                   - 1 -



V - View Maps.  At Map menu, press the appropriate initial letter of the
    map to be viewed.  Pressing "ESC" again will return to game play.
    When viewing the Memory Map, use the movement keys to scroll the map.
1-9 - Set Game and Combat Speed.  Slowest to Fastest.  Use number keys
      across top of keyboard.
ESC - Pause Game.  Pressing "ESC" again will display Options and Character
      Status during Adventure.  "ESC" also exits all menus (Use, Magic,
      etc.,) and will cancel most of the adventuring commands (Throw, 
      Swing, Fireball, etc.,)


                                  COMBAT

During  combat,  there  are  several methods you can  use  to  defeat  your 
enemies:

1.   Use the movement keys that are indicated on this reference card  under 
Combat, Sword and Karate.
2.   Use the mouse directly on your disciple to move and strike.   If  your 
disciple is equipped with a sword then a sword icon will appear.   If  your 
disciple  is  bare-handed then a foot or hand icon will appear for  you  to 
strike with.
3.   There is a set of icons directly below the combat screen that  can  be 
clicked upon for movement and striking.

A  glowing sword to the left of your stats indicates that you are  using  a 
blessed sword.

              Movement                                     Combat

  (I) (O) (P)        (7) (8) (9)                 Action            Keys
    \  |  /            \  |  /               Long strike left        A
     \ | /              \ | /                Long stride right       S
      \|/                \|/                 Short step left         Z
(K)---------(;)     (4)--------(6)           Short step right        X
      /|\                /|\
     / | \              / | \
    /  |  \            /  |  \
  (,) (.) (/)        (1) (2) (3)


                                 Sword
                                 -----
Short upper swing     I or 7                 Long upper swing     O or 8
Short middle swing    K or 4                 Long middle swing    L or 5
Short lower swing     , or 1                 Long lower swing     . or 2


                                 Karate
                                 ------
High Kick             I or 7                 High Punch           O or 8
Middle Kick           K or 4                 Middle Punch         L or 5
Low Kick              , or 1                 Low Punch            . or 2


NOTE:  To "Block" with a sword or bare hands, press the SPACEBAR.

RETURN - Break and Run during Combat.   Does not work in Training. 
 NOTE: The probability of successfully breaking and running from a combat 
decreases with lowered Dexterity.


                                   - 2 -



DESCRIPTION OF ICON:  Function

- Disciple: Toggle Between Equip Sword/Bare Hands.
- Disk: Preferences/Ways of Play.  * (See below)
- Question Mark: Options/Commands.
- Pouch: Use Pouch Contents.
- Mystic Square: Magic.
- Eye: View Maps/Lenses.
- Head with sound waves: Listen.
- Disciple and peasant: Communicate.
- Hand: Get (Chest/Vials/Water).
- Door: Open/Close door.
- Sword: Swing sword.  Will only appear if you are equipped with a sword.
- Hammer: Hit with hammer.  Will only appear if you have one in your 
  possession.
- Shuriken: Throw Shuriken.  Will only appear if you have some in your 
  possession.
- Fireball: Cast Fireball.  Only available when you become eligible to use
  them.

* Special Note:  When Preferences/Ways of play is selected by choosing the 
disk icon, a menu with the following options will appear.

   Auto chop: Toggles a mode in which you automatically swing your sword at 
      vegetation as you try to move onto it.
   Pace: Another way to adjust speed of play.
   Show mouse: Toggles between visible and invisible mouse pointer.
   Full sound: Plays music throughout the game.
   Mid sound: Plays music at important events.
   Basic sound: Sound effects only, no music.
   No sound: Silent
   Restore: Restores your game to the last save.






















                                                                    rmh







                                   - 3 -



