                   FOOTBALL MANAGER WORLD CUP EDITION

Typed in by DOCTOR STRANGE for VISION FACTORY. Edited by PARASITE.


The aim is to manage your team through to winning to world cup.

HOW THE TEAM GROUPS AND LEAGUES WORK
The world cup is split into 2 parts:

The qualifiers.This is split into 6 regions:
Europeans.
South America.
Oceana/Israel.
Asia.
North and Central America.
Africa.

     Depending on whitch team you wish to be,you have to play in accordance
     with the qualifying systems of that region.Also,if you choose Italy
     or Argentina,you will automaticaly go straight throught to the finals

The Finals.
      These start with league groups and progress to knock-out competitions.

THE GAME VIEW
   There are two game views,ball on-view and scrolling view,which you can
   change from one to the other at any time during the action sequence by
   using FIRE,LEFT mouse button or RETURN key.

HINTS AND TIPS
   Players types.Strikers are better at scoring goals.Passers choose more
   intelligent passes.Runners can run faster.sweeper players are better at
   sweeping up opertunities,attacks.The more passing options you allow a
   player,the more likely he is to pass than run with the ball.

WHAT YOU DO BEFORE YOU PLAY A MATCH
     You have a squal of 22 men from which you must select 11 players,5
    subs and 6 reserves.As a manager,you can manipulate your team as
    follows:

     1. Positioning.You do this by pressing "POSITION"(The player will be
        highlighted on the screen.)and moveing that player to where you
        want him,using keyboard or mouse for left,right,up or down;after
        clicking the "PASSING" position bar then click the pointer on the
        new position of the pitch display.

     2. Playing,substitution or reserves.

     3. Directions and lenghts of passes and kicks for example:
        Backwards,fowards,long,short

     4. Type of play: thru runs,sweeper play,find space,positional,
        wingplay.

        The player type,i.e:Tackler,passer,runner and goalie and skill
        values are fixed.

        You can also view the values and positions of your opponents
        players by clicking the top bar,Please note you cannot change
        them!

        You also have a menu option to see the complete teams in their
        formation.This shows each player,including the opponents,the type
        of player the ,the skill value and playing tactics. E.G S5W- Striker,
        skill value 5 and wing play.

WHAT YOU CAN DO DURING AND HALFWAY THROUGH A MATCH

        At any time,during the action sequence,you can attract the referees
        attention to put on a maximum of 2 substitutes.This is done by pressing
        your RIGHT mouse button or SPACE BAR.You will then be able to put on
        one or two subs when the ball goes out of action,You must remove a
        player before bringing on a sub.
