                        HEADCOACH part 2

Section 7

Dot commands description.
The dot commands request special operations.  The following paragraphs
describe  each  of  the  dot  commands,  in alphabetical order.  If you are
playing  the  game  in  mouse selection mode, click the desired dot command
from  the  display twice.  Any additional choices will be obtained by using
self-explanatory  boxes.   This  remainder of this section is written for a
game in the keyboard selection mode.

Each  command  is  specified  by  typing  a  dot ".", typing the two-letter
command,  and  pressing  the  RETURN key.  Some commands require additional
information  on  the dot command line, some ask for additional information,
and some require no additional information.

.1R

When  Head  Coach  begins,  you are in the playbook mode.  After entering a
play call, either offense or defense, you need to press the RETURN key only
once  to complete the call.  This mode is the "1 Return entry mode." If you
enter the ".1R" command, Head Coach disables the 1 Return mode.  When the 1
Return  mode  has been disabled, Head Coach will continue to ask for a call
until you press RETURN without having typed anything.

The  1  Return mode is disabled until another ".1R" command is entered.  At
this time, the 1 Return mode switches.

If  you  are in the mouse selection mode and not in the "1R" mode, you must
click  the "OK" box in the lower right hand of the menu display to complete
a play call.

This mode is particularly useful for more advanced players who use multiple
entries  per  call.   For  example, the offense may want to make a detailed
call,  set  the  snap  count  (.ON  command),  and  specify  receivers (.RL
command).

.45

In  professional football, the offense generally has 45 seconds in which to
begin  the  offensive  play.   Head  Coach  permits you to either enable or
disable  a  45  second  delay-of-game  clock.  When the game begins, the 45
second clock is disabled.  Entering ".45" enables the clock.

When the offense is instructed to enter a play call, the 45 second clock is
displayed,  but  does  not  actually show 45 seconds.  This is because in a
real game, the 45 second clock is begun when the previous play has stopped.
Head  Coach  approximates what the 45 second clock will be when the offense
gets  into  the  offensive huddle and the quarterback can actually call the
play.   In  this manner, Head Coach gives the player an amount of time very
consistent  with  real  professional  football.   If  the  offense does not
complete  a  play  call  before the 45 second becomes zero, a delay of game
penalty is assessed.

The  delay of game penalty is not assessed until the offensive play calling
is complete.  The offense is not interrupted out of calling the play.

Entering  ".45"  alternates between enabling or disabling the delay of game
clock.

.AU

Head  Coach  provides  a  much more realistic game environment by using the
audibles  mode.  When in audibles mode, just like in professional football,
the  offense  may  decide  to  change  the called play while at the line of
scrimmage.   This is usually done because the defense has apparently called
a  defense  which will be very effective against the offensive play called.
Sometimes  the offense may be looking for a particular defensive setup, for
which the offfense has a good play to use.

While  in  audible mode, after the offense and defense have made their play
calls,  the offense will see on the display the defensive alignment against
the  offensive alignment.  If the offense does not wish to change the play,
simply  press  RETURN  (  or  click OK if in mouse mode).  The play will be
executed normally.

However,  if the offense would like to change the play, simply make another
play  call.   The  defense will then get a chance to make another defensive
call.   In  this  manner, the game is very realistic.  The offense must get
the  ball  snapped  before  the  45  second clock elapses, if used, and the
defense must be prepared for the offense to snap the ball at any time.

Remember,  if  the offense makes any play call after the first, the defense
is  given  a  chance  to  change  the defense.  Some experienced Head Coach
players  have noted that by reentering the same offensive call, the defense
is given a chance to change but cannot be sure that the offensive play call
was really changed.

.CJ

Sometimes,  the  colors being worn by one of the teams needs to be changed.
Most  often,  this  happens  when the home team uses a light jersey at home
(most  teams  wear  a  dark  jersey  at home).  When a team needs to change
jerseys,  enter  ".CJ".   You  are asked to enter the name of the team that
must change jerseys.

.CT

The  ".CT" command is used to enable a team to be computer controlled or to
disable  a  team from being computer controlled.  After either entering .CT
and  pressing  the  RETURN  key or double clicking the CT, you are asked to
enter the name of the team to be processed.

Next you are asked to enter "E" to enable the team as a computer-controlled
team  or "D" to disable the computer-controlled team, returning the team to
player control.

.DC

When  a  team is placed in computer mode, the computer selects the offenses
and  defenses.   If  Head  Coach  is  in  "Display Call" mode, the computer
generated   calls   are   displayed.   Entering  ".DC"  alternates  between
displaying or not displaying the computer play calls.

.DP

When you begin a game, Head Coach does not display the contents of playbook
calls  (the  detailed  call).   To enable the displaying of detailed calls,
enter  ".DP".   Entering  ".DP"  alternates between displaying the detailed
call associated with a playbook call and not displaying the detailed call.

.DR

When  players  are  displayed  on  the screen, either one or two digits are
displayed  on  each player.  The numbers displayed can be either the jersey
number of the player or the rank of the player.  Whenever the ".DR" command
is  entered,  the  mode  of  display  is switched between jersey numbers or
ranks.   You  are told which mode of display will be used.  This mode is in
effect  until  another  ".DR"  command  is entered.  At this time, the mode
switches.

Because  of  limited display space, when a player rank, from 1.0 to 5.0, is
displayed,  it is displayed without a decimal point.  For example, the rank
for a 3.0 player is displayed as 30.

.FG

To  attempt  a  field  goal,  enter  ".FG",  and  the field goal attempt is
executed.

.FK

When  your team is tackled behind your own goal line for a safety, the ball
is  placed  on  your 20-yard line, and you are instructed to enter ".FK" to
kick  your  free  kick.   When the computer requests the free kick, you may
also  enter  ".RP"  (described  later)  to  replay the previous play, which
resulted in the safety.

.GR

You  can  consult  Head  Coach  for  a  play  recommendation at any time by
entering   ".GR".   Head  Coach  evaluates  the  current  situation  (down,
distance,   score,  etc.),  and  based  upon  the  game  plan,  displays  a
recommendation.

Note:
        You must have a game plan entered
        for the .GR command to function.

.HE

Entering  ".HE"  displays  on  the  screen  a  list of all the dot commands
available with the function of each.

.IN

Head  Coach  permits  players to be injured when operating in the "injuries
possible"  mode.   When  the  game  starts,  injuries are not possible.  To
enable  injuries,  use  the  ".IN" dot command.  To disable injuries, enter
".IN" again.

If  an  injury occurs, both teams are informed of the nature of the injury,
and  for  how  many plays the player must remain out of the current game or
subsequent  games.   When  the  amount of plays has elapsed, both teams are
informed  that the injured player may now reenter the game.  The player may
be  placed  back  into  the  game by using the ".SU" dot command, described
later.

A  player  may  be injured for more than the remainder of the current game.
If  league  statistics  are being maintained, the players' injury status is
saved  at  the conclusion of the current game.  When that team plays again,
and  the  league  statistics  are read in, the player will continue to heal
over the required number of plays.

.KM

As  was  described in Section 3, Your First Game, plays and commands may be
selected  by using either the keyboard or the mouse.  The ".KM" dot command
switches between the two methods.

.KO

Whenever a kickoff must be executed, you are notified.  You are notified by
a  special  message  if  in keyboard mode, or in the window title bar if in
mouse mode.  Enter ".KO" to execute the kick-off.

.LC

To recall the last call that the offense or defense made, enter ".LC".  The
last  call  that  was  made  is  displayed and treated as if the offense or
defense had entered the call again.

.MG

If  you are playing a remote Amiga game, you may transmit a message of your
choice  to  your  opponent.   After  entering  the  ".MG"  command, you are
instructed  to  enter  your  message.  Enter the message and the message is
transmitted to your opponent.

.MP

If you are using the keyboard mode of play and command selection, the mouse
is not used.  Therefore if you are in the keyboard mode Head Coach can turn
off  the  Åmouse  pointer.   Entering  the ".MP" command alternates between
displaying the mouse pointer or not displaying the mouse pointer.

.MU

Because  the  outcome  of  plays is based upon player abilities, it is very
helpful  to  be able to see your team lined up against your opponent's team
with  the  player  abilities displayed.  Then you can evaluate how your two
teams "match up".

To  get  the player abilities displayed rather than jersey numbers, use the
".DR" command, as previously described.

Entering  ".MU"  then  places  the game in a special matchup mode.  You are
asked  to enter an offensive play and a defensive play, but the play is not
executed.  The formation is displayed so that you can look for favorable or
unfavorable matchups.  When you have finished examining the matchups, press
RETURN.

Matchup  mode is a very useful tool for evaluating the matchups that result
from the use of special offensive formations.

You  remain in the matchup mode until entering another ".MU" command, which
restores normal play calling.  You might want to usethe ".DR" command again
to cause the player jersey numbers to again be displayed.

.ND

Normally  after  messages are displayed on the screen, Head Coach delays an
appropriate  amount  of time.  If you are in a hurry, use the ".ND" command
to eliminate the time delay on messages.  This makes for a faster game.

This  is  especially  useful  if  you  want  to  have two teams play as two
computer  controlled teams.  By eliminating the delays, and by also turning
off  all  plotting,  a  complete  game  will  be  played  automatically  in
approximately 20 minutes.

.ON

Normally  the coach sending in the play (you) does not specify the count on
which  the ball is snapped, leaving that decision to the quarterback on the
field.   However,  in  certain situations the coach dictates the snap count
for  the  offense.   To  specify the snap count, enter ".ON", followed by a
single digit snap count (1 to 9) as follows:

          .ON1     Snaps the ball on the first "hut"
          .ON5     Snaps the ball on the fifth "hut"

If  you  leave off the single digit snap count Head Coach asks for the snap
count as follows:

          Enter snap count (1 to 9):

Respond by typing in a single digit from 1 to 9 and pressing RETURN.

If  you are in the mouse mode, double click the "ON" command.  You next see
a  requester  displayed  on the screen.  Using the mouse, click the desired
snap count.

.PA

Whenever  a  point  after  touchdown  attempt  must  be  executed,  you are
notified.   You  are notified by a special message if in the keyboard mode,
or  in  the  window title bar if in the mouse mode.  Enter ".PA" to execute
the "point after" attempt.

.PB

When  the  game started, you called your plays from your playbook by typing
the  name  of  the  play.   This  is the playbook mode.  For more detailed,
professional-style play calling, you make detailed play calls.  When making
detailed play calls, you are no longer in playbook mode.

If  you  wish to use only the names of plays from your playbook, Head Coach
must  be  in  the  playbook mode.  If you wish to make detailed play calls,
Head Coach must not be in the playbook mode.

The .PB command is used to alternate the play calling mode between playbook
mode  and  detailed  mode.  The game begins with both teams in the playbook
mode.  While in playbook mode, call a SWEEPR play by entering the play name
as follows:

            SWEEPR

If  you  enter a .PB command, the team is switched out of the playbook mode
into  the  detailed  mode.  You may still call a play by name, but the name
must be enclosed in apostrophes (') as follows:

            'SWEEPR'

.PC

Use  the ".PC" dot command to control use of the printer.  At any time, the
printer is in one of three possible modes:

          Never print
          Always print
          Inquire before printing

In  the  never  print  mode, the printer is never used.  If in always print
mode,  appropriate  information (usually statistics) is sent to the printer
when displayed on the screen.

If  in the inquire before printing mode, you will be asked if it is desired
to send the display currently on the screen to a printer.

When  you  enter a ".PC" command, Head Coach will ask you in which mode you
want  the printer to operate.  Also, Head Coach will ask if you are using a
single  sheet  printer.  If you use a single sheet printer, Head Coach will
pause  at  the  proper times to allow the insertion of a new sheet into the
printer.

.PM

To  add,  delete,  save,  or list plays in a team playbook, enter ".PM".  A
list  of  the  three-letter  commands  is  displayed.   If you press RETURN
without   having   entered  anything,  the  playbook  maintenance  mode  is
terminated.

To see a listing of the plays in your playbook, enter LIS.  You can request
a  listing  of all the plays, or enter the name of an individual play to be
listed.   The  contents  of  your  playbook are displayed on the screen, 20
lines  at a time.  When 20 lines have been displayed, the display operation
will  pause.   To  continue looking at the playbook contents, press RETURN.
If you have seen enough, press X, then RETURN.

To  add  a  play to your playbook, enter ADD.  Head Coach asks you to enter
the  name to be used for your new entry.  Enter the name, press RETURN, and
Head  Coach  asks  you  to  enter  the  contents  of the play entry.  After
entering  the  contents  and  pressing  RETURN,  the  new playbook entry is
stored.

To  delete  a play from your playbook, you are instructed to enter the name
of the play to be deleted.

When  adding a new entry to your playbook, your entry does not have to be a
detailed  play  call.   As explained in Section 5, Calling the Offense, the
entry can be a formation, a dot command, etc.

To  save (write) your playbook on a disk, enter "SAV".  Head Coach asks you
to enter the name of the file to write.  The current playbook for your team
is written on the file you specified.

.PO

Three  plotting  options  are available.  If you are in the mouse selection
mode,  appropriate  self explanatory boxes are displayed.  Use the mouse to
click your choices.

If  you  are  in  the  keyboard  mode,  after  entering ".PO", the computer
displays:

  Do you want to see the teams come from the huddle (y or n)?:

Press "Y" or "N" and RETURN.  Next you are asked:

  Do you want to see the play being executed (y or n)?:

Press "Y" or "N" and RETURN.  Finally you are asked:

  Do you want the defense to be able to
            see the formation (y or n)?:

Press "Y" or "N" and RETURN.

.PS

When the game is started, all plotting is done as fast as possible.  If you
would  like  all plotting to be done at a different speed, enter ".PS".  At
this point, the computer displays:

    Enter plotting speed 1 (slowest) to 10 (fastest):

Respond by entering the plotting speed, a number from 1 to 10.

If  you  are  in the mouse selection mode, click the desired speed from the
display.

.PU

Whenever you would like to punt (it doesn't HAVE to be fourth down), select
a  ".PU",  and  a  punt is executed.  You may choose to actually punt or to
fake a punt.

If  in  mouse  selection mode, appropriate boxes will be displayed to allow
you  to  make  your choices.  If using keyboard mode, select a fake punt by
one of the following:

          .PUF  - Fake punt
          .PUFL - Fake punt, to the left
          .PUFR - Fake punt, to the right

In  the  fake punt, the punter runs either to the right or left.  If you do
not choose either direction, the punter makes the choice.

You  may  choose  from  two  options if actually punting the ball.  You may
choose  either  one, both, or neither.  The first option is the "S" option,
which  means  that you want the punter to punt short, fearing that a normal
punt  would travel into the end zone.  The second option is the "O" option,
which  means  you  that  would  like  your  punter to punt out of bounds to
prevent a punt return.  For example:

            .PU   -  Normal punt
            .PUS  -  Punt short.
            .PUO  -  Punt out of bounds.
            .PUSO -  Punt short and out of bounds.
            .PUOS -  Punt out of bounds and short
                     (same thing as .PUSO).

As with the other commands, if you are in mouse selection mode, appropriate
boxes are displayed to allow you to make your punting choices.

.QU

If  you  would  like to quit playing the game before the game time expires,
enter:

            .QU

.RL

Use  the  ".RL" command to specify which eligible pass receivers the passer
considers  when  throwing  the  ball.   After  entering  ".RL" and pressing
RETURN,  you are asked to enter the receivers, either by position or jersey
number, that you want the passer to consider.  Enter the list as follows:

            TE 21 FL

This line instructs the passer to look at the TE (tight end), player number
21,  and the FL (flanker).  To force a throw to a particular receiver, such
as the SE, enter:

            SE

After  entering  your  receiver  list,  you are asked if the first receiver
named  is  a  primary  receiver.   If  so,  that  receiver is given special
attention.   You must enter either 'Y' or 'N' to indicate whether the first
receiver is or is not a primary receiver.

.RO

Entering  ".RO"  displays  a  team  roster.   You  are  asked which team to
display.  For each player, the following items are displayed:

            Jersey number
            Position
            Name
            Rank

The players that are currently in the game are marked with an asterisk "*".
Any  player currently injured is indicated with "I", followed by the number
of plays that must elapse before that player may return to the game.

As  instructed, when the team roster is displayed, you may choose to select
an  individual player to display.  The ability ranks as well as the current
game statistics for the selected player are displayed.

Press RETURN when you are ready to continue calling plays.

.RP

To see an instant replay of the previous play, enter ".RP".  This plots the
replay  at the current plotting speed (set with .PS, described previously).
To  see  a  replay  slowed  down,  enter ".RP", followed by a number from 1
(slowest action replay) to 10 (current plotting speed), as follows:

            .RP5  Plots a replay at one-half
                  (speed 5) plotting speed.

.RT

Using  the  ".RT"  command  enables  you  to play a game with your opponent
seated  at  a  "dumb"  terminal plugged into the serial plug on the back of
your  Amiga.   A player at the dumb terminal cannot see any plotting on the
terminal  screen,  but  play  selections  can  be  made  and  play  results
annotated.   This works out very well if the remote terminal is in the same
room  with  the Amiga, situated so that the player at the dumb terminal can
see the Amiga screen when the play is being executed.

If  the player at the remote terminal cannot see the Amiga screen, the game
can  still be played, but it is a bit ackward.  For example most Head Coach
players  will  agree that the same offensive formation must be used, as the
player at the remote terminal cannot see the plays.

When  the ".RT" command is entered, you are presented a series of questions
about the nature of the serial connection to the remote terminal.

.SA

To  save  the  status of the current game for continuation at a later time,
enter  ".SA".  You are asked to enter the name of a file to use to save the
current  game  conditions.   If  you  do  not  enter  a file type (a period
followed by the file type; see Section 2, Getting Started), Head Coach will
provide a file type of ".sa".

Later, when starting a game, you can enter the name of the file (you do not
need to enter the ".sa") and the saved game will be continued.

.SC

If  you  would like to practice your play calling, Head Coach has a special
"scrimmage  mode".  While in scrimmage mode, you run plays against your own
defense  (with the defense wearing jerseys reversed from the offense).  The
play is not run to a normal conclusion, only to the point of attack.  For a
run,  the play stops when the ball carrier arrives at the hole.  On a pass,
the play stops when the receiver either catches or misses the pass.

The  play  results  are  not  counted  in  the  statistics.  Entering ".SC"
alternates between scrimmage mode or normal playing mode.

.SE

The  ".SE"  command  displays  questions  so  that  you  can  specify a new
offensive  situation -- ball possession, down, distance, position on field,
score,  and time remaining.  This is not usually used during a game.  It is
primarily used for setting up special practice situations.

.SM

Want  to  play  a  computer  team  opponent  that  gets smarter as the game
progresses?   The  ".SM"  (smart mode) dot command alternates between smart
mode  in which the team learns from the progress of the game, and dumb mode
in which the game plan is followed but never modified.

In  the smart mode at the completion of each play, the play that was called
(either  offense  or  defense) is evaluated as to the effectiveness of that
call  in  that  situation.   The  game  plan  is then modified to alter the
probability of making the same call again in the same situation.

.SP

How  about  an  announcer?   If  you are playing with a disk that was built
using  the "make" program, and if you requested speach to be included, your
Head Coach can talk.  The messages are divided into three categories:

        All messages
        Major messages
        Remote Amiga messages

After  entering  ".SP",  Head  Coach asks for your choice of messages to be
included.   Of  course, if "All messages" are requested, major messages are
automatically  included.   The  "Remote Amiga message" is asked only if you
are playing a Remote Amiga game.

.ST

Entering  ".ST"  displays the current game statistics for both teams.  When
you are ready to continue play calling, press RETURN.

.SU

The  ".SU"  command  is  used to substitute a player or players for players
currently  in  the  game.   There  are  two modes for substituting players:
normal mode and roster mode.

In  the normal mode, the jersey number of incoming players is a part of the
command.   In  the  roster mode, the team roster is displayed on the screen
and  the  jersey  number of the incoming player must be typed.  If in mouse
mode, incoming and outgoing players are selected by the mouse.

To  substitute  a player in the normal mode, enter ".SU", the jersey number
of  the player coming in, a period ("."), and the position or jersey number
of  the  player being replaced.  For example, to bring in number 23 to play
halfback, enter:

            .SU23.HB

To substitute number 77 for number 73, enter:

            .SU77.73

To  use  the  roster  mode  enter  the ".SU" only (no jersey numbers).  The
roster  of  the  team  is displayed on the screen and you are instructed to
enter  the jersey number of the player coming out.  Enter the jersey number
of  the  outgoing  player.  You are next asked for the jersey number of the
player coming in.  Enter the incoming player jersey number.

If  you  are using the normal mode, you can substitute more than one player
at a time, as follows:

          .SU14.07;81.88;65.RG

This substitutes number 14 for number 7 (note the use of the leading "0" in
"07"),  number  81  for  number  88,  and number 65 will play RG.  Multiple
substitutions  can be placed in the playbook.  The substitution can then be
made by entering the playbook name of the substitute command.

.TO

To  call time out, enter ".TO".  You will be asked to enter the name of the
team  calling  the time-out.  If the team has time-outs available, time-out
is  called  and the remaining time-outs are reduced by 1.  If time-outs are
not available, an appropriate message is displayed.

.TQ

The  offense  gets  the first opportunity to call time-out.  If the defense
wants  to call time-out immediately, the offense must type it in.  By using
the  ".TQ"  command,  the  offense  will  be asked if the defense should be
charged with a time-out before the clocks begin.

This  is  particularly  useful  when  playing  a remote Amiga game, as this
permits  the  defense  to get a time-out called before the offense has used
time off the game clock by making an offensive call.

.TV

How  about  stopping  the  game for that all-important trip to the kitchen?
Using  the  ".TV"  time-out  will stop the game and all game clocks.  Press
RETURN to continue the game.

.WX

Entering  ".WX" displays the current weather conditions.  After the weather
is displayed, you must answer the following:

    Do you wish to change the weather conditions (y or n)? :

If  you enter a "Y", and press RETURN, you are asked to provide new weather
conditions.

Section 8

Computer Teams
Head  Coach  allows  either or both teams to be controlled by the computer.
This  enables you to play a game against the computer, or have the computer
control both teams and watch the game!

Three steps are required in order for a team to be computer controlled:

          1. A playbook must be provided when
             starting the game.

          2. A game plan must be provided when
             starting the game.

          3. The ".CT" dot command must be used
             to initiate computer control.

Providing  the  playbook  and  game  plan were described in Section 3, Your
First  Game.   Section  7,  Dot Commands, explains the use of the ".CT" dot
command with which you place a team into computer- controlled mode.

Playing the computer
To  play  a  game  against  the  computer,  begin the game as instructed in
Section  3,  Your First Game.  Be sure to provide a playbook and game plan.
Following  the  opening kickoff and kickoff return, Head Coach asks for the
first offensive play.  Enter:

          .CT

Head  Coach  asks for the name of the team to be processed.  As instructed,
you  may enter an "O" for the offensive team, a "D" for the defensive team,
or  the  name  of  the  team  you wish to be computer-controlled, and press
RETURN.   You are requested to enter an "E" to enable a computer-controlled
team or "D" to disable.  Enter "E" and press RETURN.

At  this  point,  the  team  you  have  selected is being controlled by the
computer, calling plays as directed by the game plan.

Computer versus Computer
If  you  would  like  both teams to be computer controlled, begin a game as
previously explained.  When Head Coach requests the first offense, initiate
computer  control  on  one  of the teams.  When the next input is required,
either offense or defense, initiate computer control of the other team.

After  placing  both teams in computer-controlled mode, you are a spectator
-- enjoy the game!

Returning to Player Control
If  both  teams  are  playing a game under computer control, you may regain
player control of the team currently on offense by pressing and holding the
CTRL  key  and  the  C  key  simultaneously.   The  next time an offense is
required, the offensive team will be switched to a player controlled team.

Section 9

The Game Plan
In  order to be able to make offensive and defensive calls, Head Coach uses
a  computer  file called a game plan.  The game plan states which plays are
used  in  specific situations.  When it is time for an offensive play call,
for  example,  Head  Coach  consults  the  team's  offensive  game plan and
determines which offensive play to call.

The  game  plan  is  a  computer file that provides a list of up to fifteen
offenses  or defenses that can be called in each play-calling situation.  A
situation is defined by:

          Offense or Defense
          Down     -- 1, 2, 3, or 4
          Distance -- Short, Normal, or Long

There are 24 possible situations, such as:

          Offense, 1 down and short
          Defense, 3 down and normal
          Defense, 2 down and long

When  Head  Coach  must  provide  a  play  call,  first  the  situation  is
determined.   Within  that  situation,  the game plan provides for up to 15
plays that can be called.

Each play provided must be an entry in the team's playbook.

Which  play  to call depends upon the play percentage.  The play percentage
states  how  many times out of 100 chances in that situation each play will
be  called.  The total of all percentages for a given situation must add up
to  100.  For example, consider the following game plan line for offense, 1
down and short:

     20 DIVER 20 DIVEL 20 SWEEPR 20 SWEEPL 10 BOMB 10 FLOODS

This game plan line for 1 down and short offensive situations specifies:

          20% of the time call a DIVER
          20% of the time call a DIVEL
          20% of the time call a SWEEPR
          20% of the time call a SWEEPL
          10% of the time call a BOMB
          10% of the time call a FLOODS

Note  that  the sum of the percentages is 100, and that up to fifteen plays
can  be  provided.   Fewer  than  fifteen  is  fine (in this case, six play
possibilities).

Provided Game Plans
Head Coach provides two game plan files -- "standard.gp" and "beginner.gp".
The  standard  game  plan  is  used  with  one the standard playbooks.  The
beginner game plan is used with one of the beginner playbook.  Using any of
the  provided  game  plans,  as  explained  in  Section 3, Your First Game,
enables Head Coach to generate play calls that are very realistic.  On both
offense  and  defense,  the  provided  game plans are conservative, without
taking a lot of risks.

The  provided  game plans require that the provided playbooks, as delivered
with your Head Coach system, must be provided when you start the game.  The
play  names  in  the  game  plan must correspond with the play names in the
playbook.   Of  course, you can edit the provided game plans and playbooks,
or  create  entirely  new files, but you must ensure that any play named in
the game plan is included in the playbook.

Making Your Own Game Plan
The game plan file is a text file that can be processed like any other text
file within your Amiga system.  You may:

          Copy
          Rename
          Delete (be careful!)
          Type
          Print
          Edit
          etc.

Game Plan File Names
The   provided   game  plan  files  provided  with  Head  Coach  are  named
"beginner.gp"  and  "standard.gp", as previously explained.  As you learned
in  section  3,  Your  First  Game,  Head Coach makes it easy to use either
provided  game  plan.   However,  you  may  use any file name you like when
building  your  own  game  plan files.  The ".gp" at the end of the name is
used  to  specify the file type ("gp" means game plan), but it is optional.
To  use your own game plan file of any name, respond to the Head Coach game
plan file name request as follows:

     The standard game plan for (team name) is "standard"

     Enter 'S' for the standard playbook,
           'B' for the beginner playbook,
       or  'E' to enter the playbook name:eÇ

Press "E" and RETURN.  Head Coach then requests:

     Enter the name of the game plan file: fÇiÇlÇeÇ

This  instructs  Head  Coach  to retrieve a game plan file named "file.gp".
Head  Coach assumes that game plan file names will end in ".gp".  If you do
not type a period in the file name, Head Coach assumes the ".gp" is part of
the  name.  However, if you would like to use a period with something other
than "gp", Head Coach will not assume the ending ".gp".  For example:

     Enter the name of the game plan file: whatever.something

This  example  causes  Head  Coach  to  retrieve  a  game  plan  file named
"whatever.something".   Since  you  provided a period and a file type, Head
Coach does not assume an ending ".gp".

Modifying Game Plan Files
You  may  use  any  text editor (ED, for example) to build or modify a game
plan  file.   However,  to  use a text editor you must first understand the
format  of  a  game  plan file.  The game plan file consists of a series of
entries, each of which either:

          Begins with "$"         -- A comment line
          Does not begin with "$" -- A data line

The comment lines allow you to place notations of any sort in the game plan
file.   Whenever  a  comment  line is encountered (the first character is a
"$"),  the remainder of the line is ignored.  If the first character is not
a "$", the line must be a data line.

The  provided  game  plan  files ("beginner.gp" and "standard.gp") includes
comment  lines that indicate the format of the file.  These comments can be
used as a guide when creating your own game plan files.

The  data lines within the files are grouped as shown in Table 9-1.  Within
each data line are a series of play percentage and play name pairs, each of
which  states  the  probability  that  the play named will be called in the
situation.   For  example,  the  following is an excerpt from the defensive
half of the standard game plan, third down, short situation:

     $ DEFENSE 3 DOWN SHORT
     15 GOAL 15 RUSH 15 GOALDW 15 GOALDT 15 REGL +
     15 ZONE3 10 ALLB

This  entry  consists  of  seven  play percentage-play name pairs, with the
percentages  adding  up  to 100%.  Therefore, for each defensive third down
and  short  situation,  one of seven plays will be called.  The percentages
state that:

          15% call GOAL
          15% call RUSH
          15% call GOALDW
          15% call GOALDT
          15% call REGL
          15% call ZONE3
          10% call ALLB

The seven pairs presented are distributed over two input lines.  The "+" at
the  end  of  the  first  line  indicates  that the line following is to be
treated  as a continuation of the first line.  In this manner you may place
up  to fifteen pairs over as many lines as necessary.  Each line that is to
be continued must end with a "+".

Section 10

Team Files
Much  of  the realism of Head Coach is a result of having all probable play
results calculated based upon player abilities.  Player ability is just one
type  of  information that is provided in each team file.  Within each file
is  stored a great deal of information that allows Head Coach to model many
factors of the team and of the team performance.

Team File Format
The  team  file is a text file containing a series of Ålines, each of which
is  either  a  data  line  or  a comment line.  All lines of the team file,
except  the player lines (explained later), must begin with either a dollar
sign ("$") or a dot (".").

Comment Lines
Comment  lines  begin  with  a  dollar  sign ("$").  Head Coach ignores the
contents  of  the line.  This allows you to place comments and explanations
in the team file.

Data Lines
All data line entries except the players' abilities are stored on one line,
with an identifying field at the beginning of each line.  The actual player
abilities are recorded on up to 45 consecutive lines of one player each.

The type of data on each line is specified by a three-character identifying
sequence  at  the  beginning of each line.  The identifying sequence begins
with  a  dot (".") followed by a two-character data type.  Table 10-1 lists
the data types available, along with information required for the type.

For example, the following line specifies that the punter has jersey number
10 and has a 41.2 yard punting average:

          .PU 10 41.2

The values on each line must be separated by at least one blank.  Character
data  such  as  team names, player names, and the home stadium names can be
stored  in  two ways.  If the name does not require a blank character to be
stored  ("Smith,J", for example) the name is recorded without any quotation
marks:

          Smith,J

If  however,  the name requires blanks ("COUNTY STADIUM", for example), the
name must be enclosed in quotation marks:

          "COUNTY STADIUM"

Comments on Data Lines
Head  Coach  also  allows  you to place comments on a data line.  Placing a
dollar  sign  ("$")  after  the  data  instructs  Head  Coach to ignore the
remainder  of the line.  You may therefore place comments on any data line,
after the data.  For example:

     .ND 34  $ This team uses 34 mostly, but some 43

This  line specifies that the normal defense for this team is a "34".  Head
Coach  will  ignore  all  characters following the dollar sign ("$"), which
allows you to place a special comment on the line.

Specifying Colors
In  Head Coach, the team file specifies the team color information for both
home  and  away  jerseys.   For  both the home and away jerseys, colors are
recorded for the jersey and for the letters on the jersey.  Therefore, four
colors must be recorded:

          Home Jersey
          Home Letters
          Visitor Jersey
          Visitor Letters

The colors are recorded as a series of three numbers, each of which must be
a number between 0 and 15.  The three numbers represent the amount of:

          Red
          Green
          Blue

For example, black contains no color, so the color value for black is:

          Red=0
          Green=0
          Blue=0

Therefore,  to  build  your own team, you must determine the values for the
red,  green,  and  blue that constitute the color you wish to see.  On your
Amiga,  a  simple  procedure  to  determine  color  coding  is  to  use the
"Preferences" program.

Following  the  instructions  in  your  Introduction to Amiga, activate the
Preferences  program and use the mouse to set the color bars for one of the
color blocks.  When you have obtained the color you like, you can determine
the  amount of red, green, and blue by counting the number of "clicks" from
the  left  that each color slide bar is set.  The slide bar at the left end
represents a color value of zero (O); the extreme right is a color value of
15.

Perform  this  procedure  four  times to determine the four colors that you
want.

The following paragraphs describe each of the types of data lines.

NA

The ".NA" line contains one field of information, the name of the team:

          .NA  REBELS
          .NA  "FIGHTING MAVERICKS"

HF

The ".HF" line contains three fields of information:

          1. Name of the home field

          2. Type of stadium:

                 "I" -- Indoor  Stadium
                 "O" -- Outdoor Stadium

          3. Type of surface:

                 "N" -- Natural   Grass
                 "A" -- Artificial Grass

For example, if the home stadium name is "BROWN MEMORIAL STADIUM", which is
an outdoor stadium with artificial grass, enter:

          .HF  "BROWN MEMORIAL STADIUM"  O A

ND

The  ".ND"  line  specifies  the  normal  defense that the team uses.  This
allows  Head  Coach  to recommend a standard playbook when the game begins.
There  is  only one field of information, and the value must be either "34"
for  a  "34" normal defensive alignment or "43" for a "43" normal defensive
alignment.  For example:

          .ND 43

This specifies that the team normally uses a "43" defensive alignment.

HJ, HL, VJ, VL

The  ".HJ",  ".HL",  ".VJ",  and  ".VL"  lines each contain three fields of
information:  the amount of red, green, and blue for the colors of the home
jerseys, home letters, visitor jerseys, and visitor letters.  For example:

          .HJ  0  4 10
          .HL  7  6  7
          .VJ 15 15 15
          .VL  0  4 10

These  specify  a  jersey that is blue with gray letters at home, and white
jerseys with blue letters on the road (away, visiting).

PU

The  ".PU"  line  specifies  the  statistics of the team punter.  This line
contains  two fields, the jersey number of the punter and the average yards
per punt:

          .PU 8 39.9

This  line  indicates  that the punter wears jersey number 8 and has a 39.9
yard average.

FG

The ".FG" line specifies the statistics of the team field goal kicker.  The
field  goal  statistics  are  also used to predict extra point and kick-off
performance.  The line contains three fields of information:

          Kicker jersey number
          Number of field goals good
          Number of field goals attempted

For example:

          .FG 3 18 22

This  line  indicates the jersey number of the team field goal kicker is 3,
and the kicker has been successful on 18 of 22 attempts.

KR

The  ".KR" line specifies a jersey number for a kick-off return player, and
the team average kick-off return:

          .KR 28 18.9

This  line  specifies  that  player  number  28 is considered the team kick
return player, and that the team averages 18.9 yards per kickoff return.

PR

The  ".PR" line specifies a jersey number for a punt return player, and the
team average punt return:

          .PR 14 12.3

This  line  specifies  that  player  number  14 is considered the team punt
return player and that the team averages 12.3 yards per punt return.

PL

The  ".PL"  line  indicates  that  the  following  lines contain the player
information.   There must be at least 22 lines, and at most 45 lines.  Each
player line contains, at a minimum, the following fields of information:

          1. Player Jersey Number
          2. Player Name
          3. Position
          4. Overall Rank

The position can be one of the following:

          OT -- Offensive Tackle
          OG -- Offensive Guard
          CR -- Offensive Center
          TE -- Offensive Tight End
          WR -- Offensive Split End and Flanker
          HB -- Offensive HalfBack
          FB -- Offensive FullBack
          QB -- Offensive QuarterBack
          DE -- Defensive End
          DT -- Defensive Tackle
          NT -- Defensive "Nose" Tackle
          LB -- Defensive LineBacker
          CB -- Defensive CornerBack
          DB -- Defensive Deep Back

The  player  name  field  may  contain a player name without blanks, or, if
blanks are required, a player name surrounded by quotation marks.

The  overall  rank is a rating of the players' ability.  The lowest ranking
is 1.0, the best is 5.0, and an "average" player ranked 3.0.  For example:

     71 "James, B" OT 3.6

This  specifies  player #71 is named "James, B", is an offensive tackle and
has an overall rank of 3.6

Internally, Head Coach uses eleven player abilities:

          1. Ability to pass block
          2. Ability to run block
          3. Ability to catch a pass
          4. Running speed
          5. Running strength
          6. Passing strength
          7. Passing accuracy
          8. Tendency to scramble while passing
          9. Ability to defend the run
         10. Ability to defend the pass
         11. Ability to rush the passer

You can place only the jersey number, name, position, and overall rank on a
player  line.   If that is all you place on the line, Head Coach takes each
player's  overall  rank  and,  based  upon  the  position,  determines  the
categories listed above for each player.

If  you  would like, after the minimum player information, you may place at
least one space, the character "+", another space, and the eleven ranks for
the  player.   In  this  manner, you may more accurately describe a player.
For example:

   7 Jones,W QB 4.0 + 1.1 1.1 1.3 3.8 2.8   4 4.0 3.0  1  1  1

This  assigns  Jones,  W  an  overall  rank of 4.0 and specifies all eleven
categories.   For example, the passing accuracy is 4.0, and the tendency to
scramble is 3.0.  The "template.team" file on your "headcoach1" master disk
includes  comment  lines  to  help  you  in  completely  specifying  player
abilities.   You may choose to described all ranks on any, some, or none of
the player lines.  Each line is processed separately.


LO, LD, LK, LP, LR, LQ, and LF

These lines specify player lineups:

          LO -- Lineup for offense
          LD -- Lineup for defense
          LK -- Lineup for kick-off
          LP -- Lineup for punting
          LR -- Lineup for kick-off return
          LQ -- Lineup for punt return
          LF -- Lineup for field goal attempt

Each  of  the  lineup  lines  contains  11 jersey numbers, representing the
players in the lineup.  The lineup entries must be placed after the .PL and
the player entry lines.

Following are descriptions of the player positions stored in each of the 11
jersey number positions for the various lineups, with an example for each:

          LO -- Offensive Lineup:
              LG LT CR RG RT TE SE HB FB FL QB
          .LO 74 61 60 53 55 17 80 35 32 81  9

          LD -- Defensive Lineup
             For a 43 defense:
              RE RT LT LE WO MI SO RC WS SS LC
             For a 34 defense:
              RE NT LE WO WI SI SO RC WS SS RC
          .LD 75 99 93 97 56 50 27 34 43 41 29

          LK -- Kickoff Lineup
             Players from left-to-right, ending with kicker:
          .LK 74 61 60 53 55 17 35 34 80 81  8

          LP -- Punt Lineup
             Players from left to right, ending with kicker:
          .LP 75 99 93 97 56 27 34 43 29 80  6

          LR -- Kickoff Return Lineup
             Players from left to right,3 rows, starting
                 with row 1, then row 2, and row 3:
          .LR 75 61 60 53 55 17 34 35 27 80 32

          LQ -- Punt Return Lineup
             Players from left to right, ending with kicker:
          .LQ 75 75 99 60 17 56 41 43 35 32 80

          LF -- Field Goal Attempt Lineup
             Players from left to right, ending with kicker:
          .LF 60 61 53 55 99 97 74 75 35  1  3

Remember  each  line,  except  the  player  lines, must begin with either a
dollar sign ("$") or a period (".").

Creating Team Files for Real Teams

To  create team files that represent actual professional teams, you need to
obtain:

          Team statistics
          Player rankings

Team statistics are widely available from a number of publications, usually
appearing  on  newsstands  in late summer.  These publications will usually
include the statistics you need for Head Coach team files:

          Team punting average
          Team field goal performance
          Team punt return average
          etc.

Obtaining  realistic  ratings  of  offensive  backs  and  receivers  is not
difficult,  because  league  standings  of  these  categories  are normally
published.   However,  obtaining  player  ratings for linemen and defensive
players is a bit more difficult.

Fortunately,  some  publications,  while  not  providing  an  actual player
ranking   number,  do  discuss  at  length  individual  players  and  their
abilities.  Therefore, to build real professional team files:

          Collect some publications that list team
               rosters, statistics, and discuss aÇlÇlÇ
               categories of players.

          Determine, usually from the publications, the name
               of the home field, and the colors the team
               uses at home and on the road.

          Publications usually provide information
               to determine the lineups required.

Collect your data, and with the Head Coach master menu on the screen, enter
a  command  to edit the file.  Suggestion:  make a copy of an existing team
file or the template team file, naming the copied file the name of the team
you  want  to build.  Use a Head Coach editing command to edit the new team
file.

Remember, player rankings:

          1.0 represents the worst ranking of players
              that play.

          3.0 is for "average" players.

          5.0 is for the best players.

Section 11

League Play
Supporting league play is accomplished  by:

          * The "make" utility
          * Statistics maintenance while playing games
          * The "lo" (League Office) utility

The "make" utility (see Section 2, Getting Started) includes the capability
of  creating  a  league file.  A league file is a file that the describes a
league:

          * The name of the league
          * The names of the conferences in the league
          * The names of the divisions in each conference
          * The names of the teams in each division

When  playing  a  Head Coach game, you may choose to have league statistics
read in when the game starts, and updated when the game is over.

The  "lo"  utility  accesses the league file to determine the makeup of the
league.   After  determining  your  choice of how to process statistics (by
league,  by  conference, etc.), "lo" collects the team statistics files for
all  required  teams.   Then  you  may  examine  the  statistics for teams,
statistics for players, team standings, etc.

Getting a League Started
To  play  a  league,  begin  by reseting your Amiga and inserting your Head
Coach disk.  When the master menu is displayed, enter:

          make

As  described  in  Section 2, Getting Started, you may format a new disk or
simply  place  new files on an existing disk.  When the "make" utility asks
if you would like to form a league, click the "Yes" box.

The  "make"  utility then asks a series of questions in order to define the
league.   When  finished,  the "make" utility writes a league file onto the
disk being "made".

You  may also use a text editor ("ed", for example) to build a league file.
A  league  file  is  a  text  file containing a series of lines.  Each line
specifies one of the following:

        League Name             Conference Namae
        Division Name           Team Name

Here is an example of a league file:

        .LN HCFL.
        .CN HCFL.
        .DN EAST.
        .TN BULLDOGS.
        .TN REBELS.
        .TN HAWKS.
        .TN BUFFALOS.
        .DN CENTRAL.
        .TN CRUSADERS.
        .TN LONGHORNS.
        .TN REDBIRDS.
        .TN HORNETS.
        .DN WEST.
        .TN TIGERS.
        .TN PANTHERS.
        .TN MUSTANGS.
        .TN COBRAS.
        .EN .

Each  line  begins  in  column  one (1) with a period (".").  Following the
peiod are two characters which identify the name being defined:

        .LN League Name
        .CN Conference Name
        .DN Division Name
        .TN Team Name

The  upper case letters must be used.  After the identification of the name
being  defined  must  be  at least one space, the name, and finally another
period (".").  The last line of the file must be the ".EN" line, indicating
the  end  of  the  file.   You  must begin the file with the league name, a
conference  name,  a division name, followed by the teams in that division.
The  remainder  of  the  file  defines  the remaining teams, divisions, and
conferences.

You must have one league name.  You may have from one to three conferences.
Each  conference  may have from one to three divisions.  Each division must
have either three, four, or five teams.

When  beginning  a  game,  Head Coach will ask if you would like to process
league  statistics  --  click  the "Yes" box.  The statistics files for the
teams  will  be read in.  If there are no statistics files, Head Coach will
create new statistics files, if you wish.

When  the  game  completes,  you  may  instruct  Head  Coach  to update the
statistics files.

To view team standings and league statistics, execute the "lo" utility from
your Head Coach disk.  By using the mouse, you can specify the league to be
examined,  and  how  the statistics are to be processed.  Simply follow the
instructions to get the complete statistics picture for your league.

Section 12

Modem Play
Modem  play is also called "remote Amiga" playing.  This means you have the
ability  to  play  a  game  against your opponent that is seated at another
Amiga,  at  some  remote location.  There are two different forms of remote
Amiga:

          * Null modem
          * Modem

The "Null modem" mode means that two amigas are connected by standard RS232
cables  with  a  "null  modem"  adapter.   The  RS232 cables and null modem
adapters  are  all  standard  equipment available at your Amiga store.  The
null  modem  mode  eliminates  the necessity of using a telephone line, but
limits  the distance between the two Amigas to the length of the cable.  If
you have two Amigas in the same room or house, the null modem is a good way
to play remote Amiga games.

If  you  want  to play with a friend across town or across the country, the
modem  mode is required.  The modem mode means that each Amiga is connected
to  a  modem device with a standard Amiga modem cable.  Head Coach supports
Hayes compatable modems.

The null modem may be used at speeds up to 19,200 baud (1920 characters per
second).   When  used  with  a modem, speeds are limited by the modem being
used.

Starting a Remote Amiga Game
When  you begin a Head Coach game, Head Coach asks if you are starting up a
remote Amiga game; click the "Yes" box.  Head Coach then begins the process
of  establishing  the  communication between the two Amiga computers.  Head
Coach  first  needs  to know if you are starting up a null modem or a modem
game.  Enter either "N" or "M", as instructed.

Head  Coach then directs you through a series of questions that will enable
Head  Coach  to  establish  communication.  Before beginning a remote Amiga
game, you and your opponent must decide:

          * Which mode to use (null modem or modem)
          * Baud rate to use (you are given a list of choices)
          * Which team will do the calling
              (The other team will answer)
          * Which team is home team and which
            team is the visiting team

After  answering  the  questions, if you are in the modem mode, the calling
computer  will  place  a call to the answering computer (during the dialog,
you have already typed in the telephone number of the receiving computer).

The calling computer will send a special message to the answering computer,
and await a special response.  If the answering computer does not answer in
one minute, the calling computer will repeat the request.

After  the communication has been synchronized, starting the game continues
normally.   When a team file is needed, the file is taken from the computer
for that team (either home or visitor) and is sent to the remote Amiga.  In
this manner, it is not necessary for each computer to have the files of the
opponent team.

The home team computer will provide the weather and random number.  At this
point  each  player  sees  a normal Head Coach game, with responses for the
opponent  being  taken  from  the remote Amiga and transmitted to the local
Amiga  computer.   Each  player  will  see the notice "Waiting..." when the
local   computer   is  waiting  for  the  remote  player  to  provide  some
information.

The  communications processing in Head Coach is sophisticated.  All data is
transmitted  in  small  units,  with  check  information transmitted.  If a
transmission  is  bad, due to line noise for example, the transmission will
be  retried.   Furthermore,  at  the  beginning  of  each  play,  the down,
distance, game time, and score is compared between the two computers.  This
guarantees that the two computers remain fully synchronized.

                       M A N   C O V E R A G E S

32.MO

 Corner Zone__             Deep Zone         _________________Corner Zone
              \               /             /
               \             WB           SB
                WS                                     SS
                                                        |
   RC                                                  /              LC
    | #1R                    WO          SO           / #2S           | #1L
    |                        | #2W       | #3S       /                |
    |                    RE  |     NT    |   LE     /                 |
    |                        |            \        /                  |
   ()                    ()  |()   ()   () \ ()   ()                  |
                            /      ()       \                        ()
                           /                 \
                         ()                  ()

32.MI
        Corner Zone_________                 ______________Corner Zone
                            \               /
                             WB           SB

                WS           Pick Zone                 SS
                | #2W           /                       | #2S
   RC            \             /                       /             LC
    | #1R         \          WO          SO           /               | #1L
    |              \                     | #3S       /                |
    |               \    RE        NT    |   LE     /                 |
    |                \                    \        /                  |
    ()                \  ()   ()   ()   () \ ()   ()                  |
                       \           ()       \                        ()
                        \                    \
                         ()                  ()

32.ML
   Corner Zone              Deep Zone        _______________Corner Zone
              \                /            /
               \             WB           SB
                WS                                     SS
                                                        |
   RC                                                   / #2S         LC
    | #1R                    WO           SO           /               | #1L
    |                        | #2W      #3S|          /                |
    |                    RE  |      NT     |  LE     /                 |
    |                        |             |        /                  |
    ()                   ()  / ()   ()   ()|  ()   ()                  |
                            /       ()     |                          ()
                           /                \
                         ()                  ()

32.MB
                             WB           SB
                WS                         | #3S        SS
                 | #2W                     |            | #2S
   RC            |                         |            /            LC
    | #1R         \          WO          SO|           /              | #1L
    |              \                       |          /               |
    |               \    RE        NT      | LE      /                |
    |                \                     |        /                 |
    ()                \  ()   ()   ()   () | ()   ()                  |
                       \           ()      |                         ()
                        \                   \
                         ()                 ()

33.MO
  Corner Zone_                         ______________________Corner Zone
              \                       /
               \                    MB
                \
                WS             Pick Zone                SS
                                   |                     | #2S
   RC                              |                    /            LC
    | #1R             WO           MI          SO      /              | #1L
    |             #2W |                         | #3S /               |
    |                 |  RE        NT        LE |    /                |
    |                 |                         |   /                 |
   ()                 |  ()   ()   ()   ()   () | ()                  |
                       \           ()           /                    ()
                        \                      /
                         ()                  ()

33.MI
                               Deep Zone
                                   |
                                   |
                                   MB
                WS                                     SS
            #2W |   Pick Zone             Pick Zone      | #2S
   RC            \      /                      \         |             LC
    | #1R         \   WO           MI__        SO      /              | #1L
    |              \                   \ #3S          /               |
    |               \    RE        NT   \    LE      /                |
    |                \                   \          /                 |
   ()                 \  ()   ()   ()   ()\  ()   ()                  |
                       \           ()      \                         ()
                        \                   \
                         ()                  ()



33.ML

       Corner Zone             Deep Zone                 Corner Zone
             \                     |                          /
              \                    |                         /
               \                   MB                       /
                WS                                        SS

   RC                                                                LC
    | #1R             WO            MI__           SO                  | #1L
    |                 |                 \ #3S       | #2S              |
    |                 |   RE        NT   \    LE    |                  |
    |                 |                   \         |                  |
   ()                  \  ()   ()   ()   ()\  ()   ()                  |
                        \           ()      \                         ()
                         \                   \
                         ()                  ()

33.MB
                                    MB
 Side Zone_      WS                  | #3S          SS       _Side Zone
           \     | #2W     Pick Zone |              | #2S   /
   RC       \    \                 |  \             |      /           LC
    | #1R    \-------- WO          MI  \        SS--+-----/            | #1L
    |              \                    \           |                  |
    |               \    RE        NT    \    LE    |                  |
    |                \                    \         |                  |
   ()                 \  ()   ()   ()   () \  ()   ()                  |
                       \           ()       \                         ()
                        \                    \
                         ()                   ()

34.MO
                           ______Deep Zone
                          /
                         /
                        /
                      WS                              SS
                                                       | #2S
                  Pick Zone_             _Pick Zone    |
   RC                       \           /              |             LC
    | #1R           WO       WI       SI           SO  |              | #1L
    |           #2W |                           #3S | /               |
    |               |    RE        NT        LE    / /                |
    |                \                            / /                 |
    ()                \  ()   ()   ()   ()   ()  /()                  |
                       \           ()           /                    ()
                        \                      /
                         ()                  ()

34.MI
    Corner Zone__    WS                              SS
                 \    | #2W      Pick Zone          __|_____Corner Zone
                  \   |         /                  /  |
   RC              \  |        /                  /   |               LC
    | #1R           WO|      WI       SI        SO    |               | #1L
    |                 |                | #3S          |               |
    |                 |  RE        NT   \    LE      /                |
    |                 |                  \          /                 |
    ()                 \ ()   ()   ()   ()\  ()   ()                  |
                        \          ()      \                         ()
                         \                  \
                         ()                  ()

34.ML

       Corner Zone__                                      ___Corner Zone
                    \                                    /
                     \                                  /
                      WS                              SS

                            Pick Zone
   RC                          /                                     LC
    | #1R           WO       WI       SI          SO                  | #1L
    |           #2W |                  | #3S       | #2S              |
    |               |    RE        NT   \    LE    |                  |
    |                \                   \         |                  |
    ()                \  ()   ()   ()   ()\  ()   ()                  |
                       \           ()      \                         ()
                        \                   \
                         ()                  ()

34.MB
                      WS                              SS
                      | #2W                           | #2S
  Corner Zone_____    |                               |
                  \   | Pick Zone        _Pick Zone   |
   RC              \  |     \           /             |              LC
    | #1R           WO|      WI       SI        SO    /               | #1L
    |                 |                     #3S |    /                |
    |                 |  RE        NT        LE |   /                 |
    |                 |                         |  /                  |
    ()                |  ()   ()   ()   ()   () / ()                  |
                       \           ()          /                      ()
                        \                     /
                         ()                  ()
42.MO

   Corner Zone______                  ____________________Corner Zone
                    \                /
                     \             MB
                      WS                            SS
                                                    | #2S
    RC                                              |                  LC
 #1R |               WO                         SO  |                  | #1L
     |           #2W |                      #3S |   |                  |
     |               |                          |   |                  |
     |               |  RE    RT         LT   LE|   |                  |
     |               \                          |   /                  |
    ()                \  ()   ()   ()   ()   () | ()                   |
                       \            ()          /                     ()
                        \                      /
                         ()                  ()

42.MI
                               Deep Zone
                                   |
                                   MB
                   WS     _Pick Zone                      SS
               #2W |     /                                | #2S
    RC             |    /                                 |           LC
 #1R |             |  WO                           SO     |            | #1L
     |              \                              | #3S /             |
     |               \   RE    RT         LT   LE  |    /              |
     |                \                           /    /               |
    ()                 \  ()   ()   ()   ()   () /   ()                |
                        \           ()          /                     ()
                         \                     /
                         ()                  ()

42.ML

  Corner Zone_______                   ___________________Corner Zone
                    \                 /
                     \              MB
                      WS                                SS
                                                         | #2S
    RC                                                   |            LC
 #1R |              WO                            SO     |             | #1L
     |          #2W |                              | #3S /             |
     |              |    RE    RT        LT   LE   |    /              |
     |               \                             |   /               |
    ()                \   ()   ()   ()   ()   ()  /   ()               |
                       \            ()           /                    ()
                        \                       /
                         ()                  ()

42.MB

                                   MB
                      WS        #3S |                  SS
         Pick Zone__    \ #2W       |   Pick Zone       | #2S
    RC              \    \           \           \      |             LC
 #1R |               WO   |           \           SO   /               | #1L
     |                    |            \              /                |
     |                 RE |  RT         \LT   LE     /                 |
     |                    |              \          /                  |
    ()                   (|)  ()   ()   ()\   ()   ()                  |
                          |        ()      \                          ()
                          |                 \
                         ()                 ()

43.MO
                          ____Deep Zone
                         /
                        /
                      WS                             SS
                               Pick Zone              | #2S
    RC                             |                  |               LC
 #1L |              WO             MI             SO  |                | #1L
     |          #2W |                          #3S |  |                |
     |              |                              |  |                |
     |              |  RE     RT        LT     LE  | /                 |
     |               \                            / /                  |
    ()                \  ()   ()   ()   ()   ()  / ()                  |
                       \           ()           /                     ()
                        \                      /
                         ()                  ()

43.MI
                      WS                            SS
            Pick Zone |                 Pick Zone    | #2S
    RC             |  |                          \   |                 LC
 #1L |            WO  |            MI__           SO |                 | #1L
     |                |                \             |                 |
     |                | RE     RT       \LT     LE   |                 |
     |                |                  \          /                  |
    ()                |  ()   ()   ()   ()\  ()   ()                   |
                       \           ()      \                          ()
                        \                   \
                         ()                  ()

43.ML

        Corner Zone_                                   ______Corner Zone
                    \                                 /
                     \                               /
                      WS                           SS

    RC                                                                LC
 #1L |              WO             MI__          SO                    | #1L
     |         #2W  |              #3S \          | #2S                |
     |              |  RE     RT        \LT    LE |                    |
     |               \                   \        |                    |
    ()                \  ()   ()   ()   ()\  ()  ()                    |
                       \           ()      \                          ()
                        \                   \
                         ()                  ()

43.MB

      Side Zone_    WS          Pick Zone       SS
                \    | #2W          |          / #3S
    RC           \   |              |         /                        LC
 #1L |            WO |              MI        |     SO                  | #1L
     |               |                        |     | #2S               |
     |               |  RE     RT        LT   | LE  |                   |
     |               |                        |     |                   |
    ()                \   ()   ()   ()   ()   |()   ()                  |
                       \            ()        |                        ()
                        \                     |
                         ()                  ()
44.MO
                                                 MB
                Pick Zone__            Pick Zone  | #2S
    RC                      \               /      |                   LC
 #1R |              WO      WI           SI       |  SO                | #1L
     |         #2W  |                             | / #3S              |
     |              |  RE     RT        LT      LE|/                   |
     |               \                            |                    |
    ()                \  ()   ()   ()   ()   ()  /()                   |
                       \           ()           /                     ()
                        \                      /
                         ()                  ()

44.MI

       Corner Zone_                              MB     ___Corner Zone
                   \                             | #2S /
    RC              \                            |    /              LC
 #1R |               WO     WI           SI      |  SO               | #1L
     |                  #2W |            | #3S   |                   |
     |                 RE   |RT        LT|     LE|                   |
     |                      |            |       |                   |
    ()                  ()  |()   ()   () \ ()  ()                   |
                            /     ()       \                        ()
                           /                \
                         ()                  ()

44.ML
                               Deep Zone
                                   |
                                   |
                                   MB

                            Pick Zone
                                /
   RC                          /                                      LC
    |               WO       WI          SI         SO                | #1L
    |               |                     | #3S      | #2S            |
    |               |  RE     RT        LT|     LE  /                 |
    |                \                    |        /                  |
    ()                \  ()   ()   ()   ()|  ()  ()                   |
                       \           ()      \                         ()
                        \                   \
                         ()                 ()

44.MB

                 Pick Zone_                       MB
                           \            Pick Zone | #2S
    RC                      \              /      |                   LC
 #1L |              WO       WI          SI       |  SO                | #1L
     |          #2W |                             | / #3S              |
     |              |  RE     RT        LT      LE|/                   |
     |               \                            |                    |
    ()                \  ()   ()   ()   ()   ()  /()                   |
                       \           ()           /                     ()
                        \                      /
                         ()                  ()

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ZONE COVERAGES
                Diagrams for zone coverages are not included
Figure 4-1: Points of Attack (Holes)

                                        0
                                        ^
    SE           7    5  LT  3  LG  1  CR  2  RG  4  RT  6  TE  8
                 ^    ^      ^      ^  QB  ^      ^      ^      ^          FL

                         HB                          FB

Figure 5-1: Offensive Linemen

                         LT     LG     CR     RG     RT

Figure 5-2: Strong Right

       SE               LT     LG     CR     RG     RT     TE
                                                                        FL
Figure 5-3: Strong Left

                 TE     LT     LG     CR     RG     RT                  SE
       FL

Figure 5-4: OR (Open Right)

       SE               LT     LG     CR     RG     RT     TE
                                      QB                                 FL
                        HB                          FB

Figure 5-5: OL (Open Left)

                 TE     LT     LG     CR     RG     RT                  SE
      FL                              QB

                        FB                          HB

Figure 5-6: IR ("I" Right)

       SE               LT     LG     CR     RG     RT     TE
                                      QB                                 FL

                                      FB

                                      HB
Figure 5-7: IL ("I" Left)

                 TE     LT     LG     CR     RG     RT                  SE
      FL                              QB


                                      FB

                                      HB

Figure 5-8: NR (Near Right)

       SE               LT     LG     CR     RG     RT     TE
                                      QB                                 FL

                                                    HB
                                      FB

Figure 5-9: NL (Near Left)

                 TE     LT     LG     CR     RG     RT                  SE
      FL                              QB

                        HB
                                      FB

Figure 5-10: FR (Far Right)

       SE               LT     LG     CR     RG     RT     TE
                                      QB                                 FL

                        HB
                                      FB

Figure 5-11: FL (Far Left)

                 TE     LT     LG     CR     RG     RT                  SE
      FL                              QB

                                                    HB
                                      FB

Figure 5-12: 1R (1 Back Right)

       SE               LT     LG     CR     RG     RT     TE
                  HB                  QB                                 FL


                                      FB

Figure 5-13: 1L (1 Back Left)

                 TE     LT     LG     CR     RG     RT                  SE
      FL                              QB                  HB


                                      FB

Figure 5-14: GR (Shotgun Right)

       SE               LT     LG     CR     RG     RT                   TE
              HB                                              FL

                                          FB
                                      QB

Figure 5-15: GL (Shotgun Left)

     TE                 LT     LG     CR     RG     RT                  SE
              FL                                              HB

                                  FB
                                      QB

Figure 5-16: 4R (4 Receivers Right)

       SE               LT     LG     CR     RG     RT         TE
                                      QB                 HB              FL


                                      FB

Figure 5-17: 4L (4 Receivers Left)

        TE              LT     LG     CR     RG     RT                  SE
 FL             HB                    QB


                                      FB

Figure 5-18: 5R (5 Receivers Right)

       SE               LT     LG     CR     RG     RT         TE
               FB                     QB                 HB              FL


Figure 5-19: 5L (5 Receivers Left)

        TE              LT     LG     CR     RG     RT                  SE
 FL             HB                    QB                     FB

Figure 5-20: WR (Wishbone right)

       SE               LT     LG     CR     RG     RT     TE
                                      QB

                                      FB
                           HB                    FL

Figure 5-21: WL (Wishbone Left)

                 TE     LT     LG     CR     RG     RT                  SE
                                      QB

                                      FB
                            FL                   HB

Figure 5-22: DR (Double TE Right)

                 SE     LT     LG     CR     RG     RT     TE
         HB                           QB                                 FL


                                      FB

Figure 5-23: DL (Double TE Left)

                TE     LT     LG     CR     RG     RT     SE

      FL                              QB                             HB


                                      FB

Figure 5-24: IRX ("I" Right, Exchange)

       SE               LT     LG     CR     RG     RT     TE
                                      QB                                 FL


                                      HB

                                      FB

Figure 5-25: OLX (Open Left, Exchange)

                 TE     LT     LG     CR     RG     RT                  SE
      FL                              QB

                        HB                          FB

Figure 5-26: 1LX (1 Back Left, Exchange)

                 TE     LT     LG     CR     RG     RT                  SE
      FL                              QB                  FB


                                      HB

Figure 5-27: Position Modifier "Spots"

     O      L      T    LT     LG     CR     RG     RT    T      L      O
     ^      ^      ^                                      ^      ^      ^

     F      S      W                                      W      S      F
     ^      ^      ^                                      ^      ^      ^

                        R                            R
                        ^                            ^

Figure 5-28: ORFLWL (Open Right, Flanker Wing Left)

       SE               LT     LG     CR     RG     RT     TE
                 FL                   QB


                        HB                          FB


Figure 5-29: ILXSETW ("I" Left, Exchange, Split End Tight Weak)

                 TE     LT     LG     CR     RG     RT     SE
      FL                              QB


                                      HB

                                      FB

Figure 5-30: 1RFBWS (1 Back Right, Fullback Wing Strong)

       SE               LT     LG     CR     RG     RT     TE
                  HB                  QB                       FB        FL

Figure 5-31: Pass Types

LT     LG     CR     RG     RT                LT     LG     CR     RG     RT
        |     QB                                            QB      |
        |      |                                             |      |
       /       |                                             |       \
     /        /                                               \        \
   /        /                                                   \        \
          /                                                       \
        /                                                           \

              RL                                            RR
              ^^                                            ^^

LT     LG     CR     RG     RT                LT     LG     CR     RG     RT
        |     QB                                            QB      |
        |     ||                                            ||      |
       /      ||                                            ||       \
     /       / |                                            | \        \
   /       /   |                                            |   \        \
         /     |                                            |     \
       /       |                                            |       \
               |                                            |

              SL                                            SR
              ^^                                            ^^

                     LT     LG     CR     RG     RT
                      |      |     QB      |      |
                      |      |     ||      |      |
                      |      |     ||      |      |
                      |      |     ||      |      |
                      |      |     ||      |      |
                      |      |     ||      |      |
                      |      |     |       |      |
                      |            |              |
                      |            |              |
                                   |

                                   PK
                                   ^^

Figure 5-32: Path Names

                    ^                     <------------
                    |                                 |
                    |                                 |
                    |                                 |
                    |                                 |
                    |                                 |
                    |                                 |
                    |                                 |
                    |                                 |

                    I                                 T


                                                                 /
      ^                                                        /
      |                                                      /
      |                                                    /
      |                                                  /
      |                                                /
      |                                              /
      - - - - - - - - - -                - - - - - -

                    L                                 V


               \
                \
                 \
                  \                                   /-\
                   \                                 |  |
                    |                                   |
                    |                                   |
                    |                                   |
                    |                                   |
                    |                                   |


                    Y                                   H


                    ^                                  ^
                    |                                  |
                    |                                  |
                    |                                  |
                    |                                  |
                    |                                   \
                    |                                    \
                    |                                     \
                    |  (Delays 5 counts)
                  .....
                    D                                 U

Table 5-1: Pass Route Table

                                      Downfield       Lateral
      Pass   Name            Path       Yards          Yards

       A     Angle            I          12             -12
       B     Blast            I           6              -3
       C     Corner           Y          30              10
       D     Deep Hook        H          15               0
       F     Fly              I          30               0
       G     Go               U           7              12
       H     Hook             H           8               0
       I     In               T          12              -9
       L     Lead -- Not a pass route -- see explanation in text
       O     Out              T          12               9
       P     Post             Y          30             -10
       Q     Quick Post       Y          10              -6
       S     Stay -- No movement          0               0
       W     Wide Cross       T           7             -22
       X     Cross            T           4             -11
       Z     Zip              I           2              -4

    hole number -- assigned player goes to hole number specified

Figure 5-33: Passing Tree
                                       P        F      C
                                        \      |      /
                                         \     |     /
                                          \    |    /
                                           \   |   /
                                            \  |  /
                                             \ | /
                                              \|/
                                              /|
                                             / |
                                            D  |
                                               |
                                  I------------|-------------O
                                      A\  Q\ H/|         |G
                                        \   \  |         |
                                         \   \ |         |
               W--------------------------\---\|        /
                                           \   |      /
                           X----------------\--|    /
                                             \ |  /
                                              \|/
                         CR     RG     RT     TE

Figure 5-34: Points of Attack (Holes)

                                        0
                                        ^
    SE           7    5  LT  3  LG  1  CR  2  RG  4  RT  6  TE  8
                 ^    ^      ^      ^  QB  ^      ^      ^      ^          FL


                         HB                          FB

Table 5-2: Blocking Assignments

        Block
        Name              Meaning

          C     Cross block --  linemen at the point of attack cross
          F     Far block   --  Off-side tackle pulls to the
                                  point of attack
          G     Go block    --  On-side guard pulls away from the
                                  point of attack
          N     Near block  --  On-side tackle pulls to the
                                  point of attack
          O     Onside trap --  On-side guard pulls  to the
                                  point of attack
          P     Power block --  Both guards pull to the
                                  point of attack
          Q     Quick toss  --  QB tosses the ball to the ball carrier
          T     Trap block  --  Off-side guard pulls to the
                                  point of attack
          W     Wedge block --  All blockers move toward the
                                  point of attack
          Z     Zone block  --  All blockers block the nearest defender
                                          (default)

Figure 5-35: IRXSELW.FB5TQ.SELHB8FLOTEC

                                                             /
                                                            /
                                                           /
                                                          /
                                                         /
                                                        /
                                                       |
                                                       |            ______
                                                       |             |
                                                       |           |
                                                       |           |
           ____|                                       |           |
          /    |___                                    |           |
        SE     \ | LT     LG     CR     RG     RT     TE/          |
                \\               QB     |              /           FL
                 \\_____________._______|             /
                  \            .                     /
                   \          .  HB_________________/
                    \        .
                     \______.____FB

Figure 5-36: OR.HB8T.FBOSEPTECFLP;RR

                /
               /                                                   /
              /                                                   /
             /                                                   / \
            /                                                   /   \
           /                                                   /     \
          /                                                   /       \
         /                                                   /         \
        |                                                   |           \
        |                                                   |            \
        |                                             ______|__________   |
        |                                            |      |             |
        |                                            |      |             |
        |                                            |      |             |
        |                                            |      |             |
       SE               LT     LG     CR     RG     RT     TE _/ /        |
                               \      QB             |        / /        FL
                                \_____|______________|_______/ /
                                      |              |        /
                        HB_____________\____________FB_______/
                                        \
                                         \
                                          \______

Figure 6-1: 32

                             WB           SB
                WS                                     SS

   RC                                                                LC
                             WO          SO

                         RE        NT        LE

    ()                   ()   ()   ()   ()   ()   ()
                                   ()                                 ()

                         ()                  ()

Figure 6-2: 33
                                   MB
                WS                                     SS

   RC                                                                LC
                             WO    MI    SO

                         RE        NT        LE

    ()                   ()   ()   ()   ()   ()   ()
                                   ()                                 ()

                         ()                  ()

Figure 6-3: 34

                      WS                              SS


   RC                                                                LC
                     WO       WI       SI        SO

                         RE        NT        LE

    ()                   ()   ()   ()   ()   ()   ()
                                   ()                                 ()

                         ()                  ()

Figure 6-4: 42

                                   MB
                      WS                           SS

   RC                                                                LC
                     WO                           SO

                       RE    RT         LT   LE

    ()                   ()   ()   ()   ()   ()   ()
                                   ()                                 ()

                         ()                  ()

Figure 6-5: 43

                      WS                           SS

   RC                                                                LC
                     WO            MI             SO

                       RE     RT        LT     LE

    ()                   ()   ()   ()   ()   ()   ()
                                   ()                                 ()

                         ()                  ()

Figure 6-6: 44

                                             MB

   RC                                                                LC
                     WO      WI          SI         SO

                       RE     RT        LT      LE

    ()                   ()   ()   ()   ()   ()   ()
                                   ()                                 ()

                         ()                  ()

Figure 6-7: 43O vs OL

                   SS                           WS

   RC                                                                LC
                    SO                MI
                                                WO
                  RE     RT        LT     LE

    ()              ()   ()   ()   ()   ()   ()
                                   ()                                 ()

                         ()                  ()

Figure 6-8: 34R vs ORHBWL

                      WS                              SS


   RC                                                                LC
                         WO         WI        SI        SO

                     RE       NT             LE

    ()                   ()   ()   ()   ()   ()   ()
                  ()               ()                                 ()

                                             ()

Figure 6-9: The 4 Zone Types
                         |      Deep         |
                    |    |         |         |     |
  Corner       \    |    |         |         |     |   /   Corner
                \   |    |         |         |     |  /
 ________________\__|    |         |         |     |_/______________________
                  \      \        (*)        /      /
                  (*)     \                 /      (*)
                           \               /
                             \           /
                               ---------

 ---------------\              /-------\              /---------------------
                  \          /           \          /
                    \      /     Pick      \      /
    Side             \   |                   |   /            Side
        \             | |          |          | |            /
         \            |  |         |         |  |           /
          \          /     \       |       /     \         /
           \        /        \     |     /        \       /
           (*)    /            \  (*)  /            \   (*)
 ---------------/               -------               /--------------------

Figure 6-10: 43.MO
                              Deep Zone
                            /
                          /
                         /
                        /       Pick Zone
                      WS            |              SS
                                    |              | #2S
   RC                               |              |                 LC
#1R |                WO            MI           SO |              #1L |
    |            #2W |                       #3S | |                  |
    |                | RE     RT        LT     LE| |                  |
    |                |                           | |                  |
    SE               |   ()   ()   ()   ()   ()  | TE                 |
                      \            QB           /                     FL
                       \                       /
                         HB                  FB

Figure 6-10 (Cont'd): 34.MB

       Side Zone      WS                          SS
             \     #2W |  Pick Zone    Pick Zone  | #2S
              \        |   \              /       |
   RC          \       |    \            /        |                  LC
#1R |           WO     |      WI       SI         |  SO               | #1L
    |                  |                          | / #3S             |
    |                  | RE        NT        LE   |/                  |
    |                  |                          |                   |
    SE                 | ()   ()   ()   ()   ()  /TE                  |
                       |           QB           /                    FL
                        \                      /
                         HB                  FB

Figure 6-11: 43.MO vs 1L

                                        Deep Zone
                                                 \
                                                  \
                                                   \
                                                    WS
                SS
                 | #2S            Pick Zone
    RC           |                    |                                 LC
 #1R |           |                    |                             #1L |
     |        SO |                    MI                   WO           |
     |     #3S \ |                                         | #2W        |
     |          \|     RE      RT            LT      LE    |            |
     |           |                                         |            |
     |           TE     ()     ()     ()     ()     ()     |            SE
     FL            \                  QB                   HB
                    \
                     \
                      --------------- FB

Figure 6-12: 43.MO.AI

                            /
                          /
                         /
                        /
                      WS            |              SS
                                    |              |
   RC                               |              |                 LC
    |                WO            MI           SO |                  |
    |                |                           | |                  |
    |                | RE     RT        LT     LE| |                  |
    |                |   \      \      /      /  | |                  |
    SE               |   (\   () \ () / ()   /)  | TE                 |
                      \            QB           /                     FL
                       \                       /
                         HB                  FB

Figure 6-13: 34.MB.AO

                      WS                          SS
             \         |                          |
              \        |   \              /       |
   RC          \       |    \            /        |                  LC
    |           WO     |      WI       SI         |  SO               |
    |                  |                          | /                 |
    |                  | RE        NT        LE   |/                  |
    |                  |/          |          \   |                   |
    SE                 / ()   ()   |)   ()   ()\ /TE                  |
                       |           QB           /                    FL
                        \                      /
                         HB                  FB


Figure 6-14: 33.Z5.AP

 Corner Zone   Deep Zone       Deep Zone        Deep Zone     Corner Zone
  \                |               |                 |                 /
   |              /                MB                |                /
   |            WS                                  SS                |
   |                            Pick Zone                             |
   RC                               |                                LC
                                    |
  Side Zone----------------- WO    MI    SO---------------------Side Zone

                         RE        NT        LE
                         |         |          |
    SE                   ()   ()   |)   ()   ()   TE
                         |         QB         |                      FL
                          \        |         /
                         HB\       |        /FB
                            \      |       /
                             \     |      /

Figure 6-15: 43.MI.AG

       Pick Zone    WS
               \     |               Pick Zone    SS
                \    |                        \    |
   RC            \   |                         \   |                 LC
    |             WO |             MI           SO |                  |
    |                |              |              |                  |
    |                | RE     RT    |   LT     LE  |                  |
    |                |         |     \   |         |                  |
    SE               |   ()   ()   () \ ()   ()    TE                 |
                      \            QB  \                              FL
                       \                \
                         HB              \--FB

Figure 6-16: 44.MB.AF

                                             MB
                                             |
   RC                                        |                       LC
    |                WO      WI          SI  |      SO                |
    |                |       |            |  |       |                |
    |                | RE    |RT        LT|  |  LE   |                |
    |                |       |            |  |       |                |
    SE               |   ()  |()   ()   ()|  |)   FB |                |
                                   QB                                 FL

                         HB                  FB

Figure 6-17: 34.MB.BWO WI 55

                      WS                          SS
                       |                          |
                       |                          |
   RC                  |                          |                  LC
    |           WO     |      WI       55         |  SO               |
    |            \     |       |        |         | /                 |
    |             \    | RE    |   NT   |    LE   |/                  |
    |              \   |       |        |         |                   |
    SE              \  | ()   (|   ()   |)   ()  /TE                  |
                     \ |       |   QB   |       /                    FL
                      \ \      |        |      /
                       \ HB    |        |    FB
                        \       \      /
                         \       \    /

Figure 6-18: 34.Z3.BSI

Corner Zone                   Deep Zone                      Corner Zone
   \                        /                                       \
    |                      /                                         |
    |                    WS                                          |
    |                                              SS----------Side Zone
    |                                                                |
   RC                                        Pick Zone              LC
              Pick Zone-------WI                      \
  Side Zone------WO                     SI            SO
                                        |
                         RE        NT   |    LE
                                        |
    SE                   ()   ()   ()   ()   ()   TE
                                   QB   |                            FL
                                        |
                         HB            /     FB
                                      /
                                     /

Figure 6-19: 43.ML.BWS SS

                    WS
                     \                          SS
                      \                          /
   RC                  \                        /                     LC
    |             WO    \          MI          /  SO                  |
    |             |      \          |         /    |                  |
    |              \   RE \   RT    |   LT   / LE  |                  |
    |               \      \         \      /      |                  |
    SE               \   () \ ()   () \ () / ()    TE                 |
                      \      \     QB  \  /                          FL
                       \      \         \/
                        -HB    \        /\--FB
                                \      /
                                 \    /
                                  \  /

Figure 6-21: 33.MI.CSOFL MBTE WOSE

                                   MB------\
                                            \         SS
                 |                           \         |
   RC            |                            \        |             LC
    |    /------------WO           MI          \SO-----|--------\     |
    |   /        |                   \          \      |         \    |
    |  /         |       RE        NT \      LE  \    /           \   |
    | /          |                     \          \  /             \  |
    SE            \      ()   ()   ()   ()   ()    TE               \ |
                   \               QB    \                           FL
                    \                     \
                     ---HB                 --FB

Figure 6-22: 43U.MO.SWS3.AG.CMITE.BWS

                                                  SS
                                                   |
   RC                                              |                 LC
    |               WO             MI----------\   | SO               |
    |                |  WS                      \  |  |               |
    |                |RE  \ RT     LT      LE    \ |  |               |
    |                |     \  \      \            \|  |               |
    SE               |   () \ ()   () --()   ()    TE |               |
                      \      \     QB                 /              FL
                       \      \                      /
                         HB    \             FB-----/
                                \
                                 \
