                          NORTH STAR

Typed in by CHUCKLES. Edited by PARASITE.


The NORTHSTAR PROJECT,  the most highly classified operation ever
to  be undertaken by the four Earth-Lords,  has  gone  tragically
wrong......

The  year  was 2499 and an over-populated Earth  was  grasped  in
starvation. Man fought against man, desperate for food. A meeting
was caslled and the Earth-Lords decided upon an elaborate plan of
action.  A  space station would be built.  Not an ordinary  space
station;  it would not hold just 10,  20 or even 100 people,  but
thousands  upon thousands.  There they would be able  to  produce
foods  high  in  nutritional value,  very  efficiently  and  most
importantly very quickly.

The  building  started  and  daily  flights  of  scientists   and
equipment were sent up.  As the years went by the steady flow  of
flights with their large loads accelerated the project almost  to
the  point of completion - until one day when a flight  left  but
never returned.  The station, now called NORTHSTAR was paged from
Earth, but there was no reply.

You  have been appointed to fly to NORTHSTAR to find out what  is
going on and to resolve any problems you may find.

Arriving on NORTHSTAR you find that the station has been over-run
by an alien hoard.  No human survivors can be seen anywhere - are
they  really all dead?  You notice that the life support  systems
are  inoperative,  only  your robotic implants prevent  you  from
suffocation.

Now your task becomes clear.  You must destroy these alien  life-
forms and re-activate the life support systems by making your way
to the NORTHSTAR project centre.

HOW TO PLAY
The  scrolling screen displays you,  your enemy and  the  various
obstacles  you encounter.  Your score,  lives  remaining,  oxygen
level, and any weapons collected are also shown.

BONUS PODS:    These can contain either an oxygen bonus,  a score
               bonus, or a weapon bonus.

WEAPONS:       At the start of the game your only weapon is  your
               robotic arm.  There are a further five weapons  to
               collect,  and the use of each will be obvious. The
               Smart Bomb is the only weapon that uses a  special
               key  other  than  left,   right,   up,  down,  and
               fire.Should  you  be killed you will lose  one  of
               your weapons, but this can be re-collected.

HINT:          Look  before  you leap.  Shoot  everything  coming
               towards  you  and collect everything  that  floats
               away from you.
