     POWERDROME : THE WAY TO PLAY ACCORDING TO MIKE POWELL. (THE AUTHOR!)

Typed in by ???. Edited by PARASITE.


FLYING YOUR TYPHOON:
Powerdrome, more so than most race games, requires a certain amount of
practice before you can play it well. When a player first starts, the
mouse could well appear very (over?) sensitive. It has to be like this for
the harder twisty tracks, where you might want to go from full left bank
to full right in 1/10th of a second. The joystick is a little easier for
beginners, but for precision and fast fast direction changes, you have to
use the mouse.

First of all, scale down the elevator on the tune up screen. If you still
find yourself smashing into every accesible hard surface, turn the y-lock
option on in the pits. After maybe quarter of an hour you should be
getting the hang of it, and can increase the sensitivity.

FAST CORNERING:
To turn the Typhoon, all you do is bank over. However this isn't the
fastest possible turn rate. To achieve this, first of all get the craft
flipped nearly at right angles, then pull back on the mouse, using your
elevators effectively as a rudder.

Use the racing line. Just as on ground-based racing the fastest line
through a corner is from the outside of the track to the inside and back
to the outside as the curve ends. In this way you straighten out the turn
as much as possible. In three dimensions it is a little harder to do so,
but the principle is still the same. When on an outside stretch of the
track, fly as close as possible to the sky force field, not only is it
less damaging at that height but the track is also wider at that height.

Going into an underground section is one of the most difficult manoeuvers
to get right in Powerdrome, but also on of the most satisfying when you
can get it right. The fastest way is not to brake at all but flip the
racer on its back and pull back. Then roll  through 180 degrees with the
natural curve of he track and pull back again.

SAFE AFTERBURNING:
You won't really get a fast lap without using the afterburners. However
only use them when pointing straight or you could have a bad day. Over-
heating engines is a problem, maily on the test oval with it's four long
straights, so keep an eye on the temperature guages; if you blow an engine
it cancels out any time you may have made up.

FILTER CHANGES:
When a storm is brewing up, the desision must be made as to whether to go
into the pits and change the filters. Weigh up how many laps are left -
do you need a fuel/repair stop anyway? You can take the chance of
continue without changing, but the storm may be a lot longer than you
thought.

FUEL USAGE:
Try to judge which type of fuel to use depending on the track you're about
to race on. If you're already really good on that particular track, use
Premium for maximum speed.If it's one of your weaker tracks, though, use
economy as the extra speed will probably make you crash more often. The
race length matters too; on a pit stop near the end of the race may be the
difference between first and last place.

RACE TACTICS:
The fastest way to enter the RoboPit is to scream down the pit lane and,
timing it just right, cut the engines before you reach your pit.
Alternatively, if you're going to fast to slow down in time crash into the
nearest available wall.

DAMAGE REPAIR:
If it's nealy the end of the race, don't bother to get repairs done, just
try to limp around. If you have to go in for fuel though, just changing
the nosecone costs no extra time. Find out your lead before you go in then
you can find out what you can change.

TRACK TIPS:
Test oval:
No real secret to this one - just use as much afterburner you can, short
of trashing your engines.
BEST LAP - 11.24 seconds.

AntarCorp:
Very narrow underground section, so try and stay in the middle of the
track. Vertical underground chicane can be taken flat out - just!
BEST LAP - 53.17 seconds.

Clorotek:
Entry into the underground section is difficult at first, as it's just
after a right  curve. Use the flip upside down technique. The section from
underground exit to start line should be flown withjudicious use of after-
burners.
BEST LAP - 38.35 seconds.

Otyaka:
This darkened underground section is difficult at first, but not as hard
as it seems when you know whichway the track goes. After you come out onto
the surface again, the section from the exit of the right-hand hairpin to
start can be taken flat out, but only if you get your line exactly through
the right series of chicanes.
BEST LAP - 56.58 seconds.

Banzai:
This is probably the hardes of the six tracks. Mono standard fuel is
usually the best choise here as it difficult to use the extra speed of
Nitra. Slow down to half speed for the dip under the track as a crash here
can cost a lot of time.
BEST TIME - 59.18 seconds.

Apocalyt:
The very tight hairpin (third corner from the start) should be taken at
about 30% speed. Alternatively, if not too damaged already scream straight
into the corner and smash into the wall to loose speed. The underground
loop takes some practice. Use very gentle correctons on the mouse if you
crash here it's difficult to build up speed again.
BEST TIME - 38.90 seconds.

DATALINK MODE:
If you know someone with an ST, get together and play against them in data
link mode. For the satisfaction of beating someone you know it's worth the
small cost of a cable. If one of you is a lot better than the other, you
can introduce handicaps by, say, the fast one using the slowest fuel and
no after burners. If there's several of you have a knock out competition.
