                        SEX VIXENS FROM SPACE

Typed in by GARFIELD. Edited by PARASITE.


Game controls:
                You are Brad Stallion, you see through his eyes
   and you manipulate objects with his hands (the pointer).
   The lower one fourth of the screen display is your 'console',
   you have a text display area and game controls.  The text
   display area will display a 'What Now' prompt when there is
   no text to display.  You clear, or 'activate' the console by
   clicking (pressing down) the left mouse button.  The pointer
   is also used to manipulate objects in a scene.  This may
   include touching someone, turning on controls opening doors,
   etc.  But be careful, some things may not be safe to touch!
   Additionally, the pointer is used to tell you of certain game
   conditions.  If there is more text for you to read than can
   be displayed in the text area, the pointer will become the
   word 'TEXT'.  When this happens, no other game controls are
   active.  Clicking the left mouse button will then display the
   next section of text.  The pointer will also tell you to 'WAIT'
   during any disk activity.  And finally, the pointer will on
   some occasions actually turn into what ever is in your right
   hand!

Other game controls:
                        To the right of the text display area
   is a four point compass rose, up-down gadgets, and three
   buttons, labeled 'I' for Inventory, 'L' for Location and
   'S' for game status.  The compass rose and up-down gadgets
   may be used to move about the various locations you will
   visit.  Clicking on the 'I'nventory button will show you a
   list of all objects you currently have on you.
   NOTE: The objects will usually be in your pocket.  To do
   anything with them, you first have to get them from your
   pocket!  Clicking on the 'L'ocation button will display the
   text associated with a scene.  Clicking on the 'S'tatus
   button will get you a status report from Sandie, your Ship's
   Computer.  ('Sandie' stands for "Ships Automated Navigation
   Data and Information Entity").  Sandie is your best friend and
   companion, totally dedicated to your well being.  She will
   help you, offer advice on occasion and sometimes act as your
   conscience.  But be careful!  Sandie has been in space a LONG
   time.  Thanks to the wonders of futuristic electronics, Sandie
   is always with you through a tele-link, even when you are off
   the ship.

The 'What Now' prompt:
                        This is your keyboard entry method.
   All game commands have a keyboard equivalent.  Typing 'n' or
   'N' or 'North' is the same as clicking on the upward arrow of
   the compass rose.  You get the 'What Now' prompt by pressing
   the left mouse button with the pointer over the text display
   area, or by pressing the <ESC>ape, <RET>urn or <SPACEBAR>
   keys.  The 'What Now' prompt must be displayed before any
   keyboard commands can be given.  To execute a command, type
   in the command, such as 'stat' or 'status' for a
   Status report, then press return.  If an illegal command is
   given, the text area will display 'Can't'.
   NOTE:  Every scene has its own group of legal commands.  What
   may be illegal in one scene may be a required command in
   another.

The Game Options Menu:
                        Directly above the Text Display area
   is the Game Options Menu.  Pressing the right mouse button
   will show this menu.  Continue to hold the right button down
   then move the pointer over the desired selection and release
   the button.  Two options are available at all times, unless
   the pointer indicates 'WAIT' or 'TEXT'.
   Remember Brad, it is a dangerous world you inhabit, but your
   animal cunning and sexual prowess can see you through as it
   always has before!
