                          STAR TREK

Typed in by CHUCKLES. Edited by PARASITE.


BEGIN TRANSMISSION:
STARFLEET COMMAND DIRECTIVE 12-QZ-63788
TO: CAPTAIN JAMES T. KIRK, U.S.S ENTERPRISE
PRIORITY ONE

  For some time,  Starfleet Command has designated the region  of
space  within the Sagittarius Arm as out of bounds to all  United
Federation of Planets vessels.  The reasons for the isolation  of
this  "Quarantine  Zone"  have,   until  now,  remained  strictly
classified.
   Within the past few months,  twenty Federation starships  have
entered the Quarantine Zone.  All twenty have subsequently turned
renegade,  apparently  switching their allegiance to the  Klingon
Empire. Many of these starships originally entered the Zone under
Starfleet  Command  orders to investigate  the  phenomenon.  Each
ship,   without  exception,   turned  renegade  before  it  could
communicate any useful data on the situation.  The only  relevant
information we possess is the last known locations of each of the
rebel starships before communications were broken.
  The locations of the starships fall within an area centred  on
the  star  Dakiak.  This region has expanded at  an  accelerating
rate.  Our  projections now show this "mutiny sphere"  enveloping
the entire Federation within a matter of months.
   With  no known means of stemming this rising  tide  of  mutiny
within  the  Federation,  Starfleet Command has  been  forced  to
isolate  the  renegade zone completely by enclosing it  within  a
Klein Sphere,  an interstellar barrier through which no  material
object can pass.  The Klein Sphere will be erected as soon as the
Enterprise enters the Quarantine Zone.
   Though  the Enterprise will remain in  subspace  communication
with Starfleet Command,  it will be,  effectively, trapped within
the renegade zone.

  Your mission is to discover the cause of this mutiny (suspicion
inevitably falls on the Klingons) and reverse its effects  within
a five year time period. If the Enterprise succeeds, the thousand
stars within the Quarantine Zone will be saved,  the Klein Sphere
will be dissolved,  and the quarantine lifted.  If it fails,  the
Enterprise  and  its crew are condemned to  eternal  imprisonment
within the renegade zone and Starfleet Command will be forced  to
make  the  final adjustments to the Klein Sphere and  make  it  a
permanent fixture in space.
   Remember  that,   in  addition  to  Federation,  Klingon,  and
Independent  planets,  there are some  Romulan-controlled  worlds
within the Quarantine Zone.
    The   Romulans  themselves  maintain  a   carefully   guarded
neutrality,  but  the very existence of the Quarantine  Zone  has
caused  a  diplomatic incident of galactic  proportions  for  the
Federation.  Romulan  ambassadors to the Federation  have  lodged
strident and continual protests at the Federation's  action,  and
they have demanded the immediate dissolution of the Klein Sphere.
Thus,  the Romulan stance towards the Enterprise and its  mission
is one of non-cooperation.

END TRANSMISSION.

CAPTAIN'S LOG
STARDATE 4107.6
   In accordance with the directive issued by  Starfleet  Command
seven days ago,  the Enterprise has now entered a region of space
designated the Quarantine Zone,  and we have now established that
this Quarantine Zone is,  in fact,  a Klingon  construction.  The
Klingons  have discovered that a peculiar isotope  of  dilithium,
dilithium delta 6,  found only on Deklan II, acts as a telepathic
amplifier.  In particular,  when linked to a major power  source,
such as a starship's warp drives,  dilithium delta 6 renders most
sentient beings within range open to telepathic suggestion from a
distance of light-years.

   To  exploit this exotic property of  dilithium  delta  6,  the
Klingons  have  constructed a psimitter,  a  device  which  emits
coherent psi-beams. Psi-beams are unique in that they can be used
as  carriers of telepathic information.  However,  they are  also
unique  in the truly prodigious quantities of energy required  to
maintain them over useful distances for usefull periods of  time.
For a psi-beam to be effective throughout the entire area of  the
Quarantine  Zone,  the  Klingon psimitter  would  require  energy
equivalent  to the daily output of approximately  twelve  stellar
masses.
  Consequently,  the Klingons have been unable to build a  mobile
psimitter,  basing it instead on an energy-refining planet  close
to  the  center  of the Quarantine Zone.  Even  this  has  proved
insufficient to fuel the psimitter's voracious appetite, however,
forcing  the Klingons to construct a form of  interstellar  power
grid  around the psimitter planet.  A network of similar  energy-
refining planets feed their output to the psimitter planet, using
I-beams to transmit the power.
   The Klingons have not relied exclusively on the psimitter  and
dilithium delta 6, however. They have backed up their scheme with
a considerable starfleet of their own within the Quarantine Zone.
Their  method  for  "converting"  a  Federation  vessel  involves
sending  a  Klingon  starship or surrogate (perhaps  one  of  the
mutinous  Federation ships) as close as possible to  the  target,
under a flag of truce if necessary. At close range, the dilithium
delta 6 on board the Klingon vessel is powerful enough to subvert
the  Federation  crew telepathically.  Once  they  have  asserted
telepathic  dominance,  the Klingons board the Federation  craft,
bearing  a  "gift" of dilithium delta 6 to be used  in  the  warp
drives  of  the target vessel.  This  ensures  continued  Klingon
telepathic control even after they return to their own ship.
   This stratagem,  which would be useless if employed against  a
Klingon  ship (the Klingons have notoriously little  respect  for
the  concept  of a "truce" and would obliterate  any  approaching
vessel,  white  flag or not),  has been devastatingly  successful
against  Federation ships,  which observe a policy of  neutrality
against non-hostile vessels.  Even now, isolated from the rest of
the universe by the Klein Sphere,  the commanding Klingon admiral
relentlessly  pursues his objective.  If the experiment  succeeds
within the Quarantine Zone, It can just as easily succeed outside
the  zone once the Klingon Empire finds new sources of  dilithium
delta 6.

    Within the Quarantine Zone,  by accident rather  than  design,
there  are also Romulan vessels and  Romulan-controlled  planets.
The Klingon admiral's orders are to avoid confrontation with  the
Romulans at all times,  treating them as respected  neutrals.  At
all  costs,  he must prevent any form of cooperation between  the
Romulans and the Federation.
   The Klingons fear the Romulan cloaking device,  which  renders
their  ships  invulnerable  not only  to  normal  electromagnetic
radiation  but to telepathic emissions from dilithium delta 6  as
well. If the Romulans were to act in concert with the Federation,
it would be disasterous to the Klingon conspiracy.
  The crew has been informed of the perilous yet vital nature  of
this assignment and are prepared to act accordingly.

                                           JAMES T. KIRK CAPTAIN
Booting Up the Game
   Before booting up the game,  you will need to format  a  disk.
This disk will be your save and load disk.  After formatting your
save  disk,  make sure that it is not write-protected (the  black
tab on the top of the disk is closed).  Remove the disk from  the
drive when you are finished.
   Before  inserting  your game disk,  check that  it  is  write-
protected (the black tab is open,  and you can see a  hole).  Now
insert the game disk into the drive.  Turn the computer  on.  The
game will now load.  Do not touch the mouse or joystick while the
game  is  loading.  Once the game is loaded  (the  music  stops),
remove the game disk and insert your save disk. You will not have
to reinsert the game disk unless you want to restart the game.

Game Control

Moving through The Rebel Universe
The Rebel Universe employs the Multivision game system. It offers
the  user  a  unique and flexible way to view  and  control  many
diverse events, using either a mouse or joystick.
   The computer screen is divided into one primary  display  area
surrounded  by  seven  smaller secondary  screens.  As  the  game
begins,  the  primary  display  area contains  a  screen  of  the
Enterprise's bridge, complete with crew. In the secondary screens
are portraits of the seven officers you will be controlling.
  Each character's screen provides access to the functions he  or
she  is  responsible  for aboard  the  Enterprise.  Most  of  the
secondary  character screens provide this access through  control
points. Items on the screen that, when you click on them, call up
further  subscreens related to each crew member's  function.  For
example,  if you are engaged in a battle,  you should choose  the
control  points  on Chekov's screen,  because he is  the  weapons
officer and will be of greater use to you than,  say  McCoy,  the
medical officer.
  All but Scotty's, McCoy's, and Uhura's screens contain at least
one  control point.  These control points vary according  to  the
particular screen and include pictures of  people,  objects,  and
instrument panels.
   The following is a detailed chart listing the various  screens
and how they will help you through the game:

KIRK    SPOCK        SULU      SCOTTY  CHEKOV    MCCOY  UHURA
saving  solar system Starglobe warp    weapons   crew's communi-
loading types        drive     and     tracking  health cations
pausing planet types controls  impulse targeting status
elapsed enemy status solar     status
time    Enterprise   system
number  status
of
enemies
destroyed

Selecting a Screen
  To select a screen,  use a joystick or mouse to move the cursor
(the Federation symbol) to one of the secondary screens and  press
the  action  button.  The screen you select now  moves  into  the
primary  display  area,  swapping  positions  with  the  previous
primary screen. You can now view the screen in greater detail and
interact with it directly, choosing any of its control points.

Available Screens
  Although The Rebel Universe includes over a dozen screens, only
eight  are  visible  at any  one  time.  The  Multivision  system
contains  an  editor  that selects  the  eight  most  appropriate
screens,  so  the composition of the display looks  different  at
various points during the course of play.  The bridge is the  one
screen  that is always available,  except during a landing  party
sequence (see below).  All other screens can be accessed via  the
bridge,  where the pictures of the crew members themselves  serve
as the control points.

Note:  The only time the bridge screen is not displayed is during
a landing party sequence. If you want to access the bridge screen
at  this  time,  the  landing  party must  first  return  to  the
Enterprise.
   To  do this,  move the cursor to any of  the  seven  secondary
screens  displaying the Enterprise and click.  The landing  party
will now beam back up to the ship.

  Before moving on in the manual,  experiment with these  screens
and  controls.  Regard  this initial practice time as part  of  a
starship training course, and remember; making the right decision
at  the right time is the real challenge,  as it is for any  true
Federation starship commander.

Pausing, Saving, and Loading
   The  Kirk screen must occupy the primary display area  if  you
wish to pause during a game,  save a game in progress,  or load a
previously saved game.  At the top of the Kirk screen the letters
L  and  S appear on either side of the rectangular  time  display
window. The L and S control loading and saving, respectively.

Pausing the Game
  To pause your game,  move the cursor to the time display window
between the L and S and click. The cursor will now freeze on this
spot and time will stand still.  You can remain in the pause mode
as  long as you like.  To resume play,  simply press  the  action
button  on your joystick or mouse.  The cursor will now  unfreeze
and you will be where you were when you paused.  Remember that if
you  go  into the pause mode during a  battle,  the  battle  will
continue the moment you resume the game.

Saving Your Position
  Clicking on the S initiates the procedure for saving the  game.
A  prompt  will appear that reminds you to insert a  "save"  disk
into the disk drive.  If you already inserted your save disk into
the  disk  drive after booting up the game (see "Booting  Up  the
Game",  page  4),  ignore the prompt.  The time display  will  be
replaced by the numbers 1-8,  which represent the eight different
save positions you may choose from.  To save your position, place
the cursor on any of the eight save numbers and click. The prompt
"done" will appear when the save operation is complete.  When you
continue with the game, the time display window will reappear.
   If,  after completing the save procedure,  you get the  prompt
"Protected" instead of "Done", your save disk is write protected.
Remove the disk and slide the black button on the top of the disk
so that it's in the closed position,  reinsert the save disk, and
begin the save procedure again.
   As  you are playing the game,  you may find  that  eight  save
positions  aren't  enough.  You can actually  have  an  unlimited
number of save positions,  provided you have an unlimited  number
of formatted disks. If you've used up all eight save positions on
your save disk,  insert a fresh disk into the drive and you  will
now have eight additional save positions.
  Suppose you click on L or S but then decide you do not want  to
save or load the game at that particular moment.  Or perhaps  you
accidentally click on the L instead of the S.  Don't panic.  Move
the  cursor  either to the prompt that tells you to  insert  your
save  disk or to Kirk's portrait,  and click.  The  time  display
window  will  now  reappear  and  the  save  procedure  will   be
cancelled.
  Now suppose you have saved eight game positions but you  decide
that you no longer need,  for example, position number 4. You may
save your new position as number four,  but keep in mind that the
original  save position for number four will be replaced  by  the
position you are now saving. This is why it's a good idea to have
more  than one save disk,  to avoid accidentally "wiping  out"  a
save position.
  When saving each position, it is imperative that you record the
number  at which you saved and what has happened thus far in  the
game,  so  that you don't get confused by all of  your  different
save positions.  The chart that follows is an example of the kind
of information you may want to record when you save a position.

SAVE/RETRIEVE CHART WITH PLAYERS EXAMPLE

POSITION    SYSTEM      OBJECTS      ANALYSIS      WHAT HAS
 NUMBER   ENTERPRISE      IN            OF         HAPPENED
             IS IN      STORES        OBJECT         SO FAR

   2      Rariar      2 lepton guns Use on I-beam Pods on ship
(Save Dsk (Klingon)   1 chaffemitter  generator   middle of battl
   #1   )                           battle damage Sulu has Tachyn
                      Rom Codes        less       Gun(use on
                                    Activate Rom  blast door)
                                    Sig Console

   8      Puniex      Gleptons      see above     About to beam
(Save Dsk (Romulan)   1 chaff       see above     down.Sulu,Uhura
    # 1)              rom codes     see above     injured. Need
                      Kling Jam Dev Klings wont   dilithium badly
                                     attack       Sulu has Tachyn
                      HorShot Dev   reduces lock-
                                    on circle

   2      Vernen      see above                   Sulu has Tachyn
(save dsk (Federation)   plus                     Made 3 rebels
   #2)                Cernekov Cry  warp drain    loyal. ship at
                      1 psychogen   reduced       power.Must find
                       cans         use on rebel  1 more psychcan
                                    commander     About to beam
                                                  down.

   3      Xarmuk       see above                  just beamed dn.
(save dsk (Klingon)                               & a door
   #2)                                            collapsed.

Loading a Saved Game
   To  load a previously saved game,  click on the  letter  L.  A
prompt  will appear,  reminding you to insert the disk  with  the
saved game into the drive,  and the numbers 1-8 will replace  the
time  window.  Click on the number that corresponds to the  saved
game you want to load, and it will be restored. (If you are using
more than one save disk,  be sure to insert the correct disk into
the  drive).  You  will now see the message "Done"  and  you  can
continue the game from the point at which the game was saved. The
time display window will reappear.

Elapsed Time
There are two times displayed on Kirk's screen.  The time display
window, between the L and S at the top of the screen, show hours,
minutes,  and seconds,  reading from left to  right.  Ordinarily,
these numbers approximate "real time". However, if you watch this
window  while  you are warping between solar  systems,  you  will
notice  that  the  numbers are changing  very  quickly.  This  is
because  it will take you many days to get from one solar  system
to another. Therefore, the hours, minutes, and seconds go by very
rapidly.  The mission date display,  located in the middle of the
screen, shows years, weeks, and days, reading from left to right.
You have five years to complete your mission, or the Klein Sphere
will became permanent.  If you play one game for a long period of
time, keep close watch of the elapsed years.

NAVIGATION
  To obtain control over the navigation screens,  click on  Sulu,
whose  screen incorporates controls related to  interstellar  and
interplanetary movement and navigation.  Sulu's secondary screens
include:

* the Starglobe screen, for plotting a course to a solar system

*  the solar system screen,  for visiting the various planets  in
   that solar system

* the drive controls screen, for activating the engines to travel
  to a system

The Starglobe Screen
  Throughout the game, use the Starglobe screen to chart a course
through  space.  This screen shows a three-dimensional  spherical
representation of the region of space in which the Enterprise  is
currently located.  The Enterprise is represented by a blue  plus
sign. When the Enterprise circles in front of the globe, the plus
sign is bright blue.  As it moves behind the globe,  it becomes a
darker blue. Solar systems are represented by white stars.
   The  starglobe rotates so that you can  easily  visualise  the
three-dimensional positions of the stars.  Important:  This  does
not mean that the stars are in orbit.  The Starglobe's artificial
rotation  simply  helps  you to perceive  the  relationships  and
distances among the stars and planets.

The Rotation Icon
  For greater ease in selecting a solar system,  you will want to
stop  the  rotation  of  the Starglobe.  To  start  or  stop  the
rotation,  put  the cursor on the rotation icon (the  two  arrows
below  and  to  the right of the globe) and  click.  If  you  are
playing with a mouse, press the right button to stop the rotation
or  to start it spinning to the right.  Press the left button  to
stop it and start it spinning to the left.

Coordinates of the Enterprise
   At the start of the game,  the upper left hand corner  of  the
Starglobe  screen  tells you that the Enterprise  is  located  at
coordinates  50.50.02.  As  you move from solar system  to  solar
system, these coordinates will change.

Coordinates of a Solar System
   Below  the Enterprise's coordinates is the name of  the  solar
system that it is presently in.  At the start of the  game,  this
area  will  be blank,  because the Enterprise is not in  a  solar
system  and you have not yet plotted a course to a  system.  When
you click on any of the stars within the Starglobe,  the name  of
that solar system and its coordinates will appear.

Choosing a Solar System
  To choose a solar system to travel to, place the upper point of
the cursor on any of the stars within the Starglobe  screen.  You
must make sure that the upper point of the cursor is on the star.
Putting any other part of the cursor on a star will not work.  As
soon  as  you have clicked on a star,  a blue  line  will  appear
between  that  chosen  system  and  the  Enterprise.   For   more
information, see "Setting a Course for a Solar System" page 16.

Enterprise's Distance from a Destination
  Below the coordinates of the solar system that you have  chosen
will  be a number and the letters LY.  This represents the  solar
system's  distance  from  the  Enterprise  in  light  years.  For
example,  If the screen reads "17 LY" the Enterprise is seventeen
light-years away from the solar system you have chosen.

Set Course Window
  Use the set course window,  located below the LY display,  only
when  you have decided which solar system you want to travel  to.
For  more information,  see "Setting Course for a  Solar  System"
page 16.

Level of Magnification (Zones)
   All  of  the action in The Rebel Universe  occurs  within  the
Quarantine  Zone  where the Klein  Sphere  is  located.  However,
because the Quarantine Zone contains so many solar  systems,  you
will  have to narrow your field of vision to see them  all.  When
the Zone window in the lower left-hand corner  says,  "Quarantine
Zone",  this means that you are looking at only the primary stars
of  the entire zone.  The Starglobe screen lets you view  smaller
portions of the Quarantine Zone in greater detail.  These further
levels of magnification are the Regional and Local  Zones.  These
are  magnifications  of  the  Quarantine Zone  --  they  are  not
separate  zones.  You  can  change the zone  from  Quarantine  to
Regional to Local by clicking on the Zone window.
  If you are playing The Rebel Universe with a mouse, picture the
three  zones  on a left-right  line.  To  increase  magnification
(Quarantine  Zone to Regional Zone to Local Zone),  you must  use
the right button. To decrease the magnification, you must use the
left button.
  When the Starglobe screen displays the Regional or Local Zones,
a  line  (highlighted  reddish brown) will always  point  to  the
center of the Quarantine Zone.  This This is provided to help you
orient  the ship and is not visible when the Quarantine  Zone  is
displayed.

Quarantine Zone
   This  is the lowest level of  magnification,  representing  an
overall view of the entire Quarantine Zone.  At this  level,  the
Starglobe is centered on the star Dakiak, and displays all of the
primary  solar systems within the Klein Sphere,  and  only  these
primary solar systems. If you click the cursor on various systems
at  the beginning of the game,  you will notice that  each  solar
system is at least eighteen light-years away from the Enterprise.
You  will  always  see the same systems in  the  Quarantine  Zone
regardless of where the Enterprise is.

Regional Zone
  The Regional Zone display encompasses a spherical area one-half
the  radius  of the Quarantine Zone.  The solar  systems  in  the
regional  zone vary according to where the Enterprise is  in  the
Quarantine  Zone.  For example,  at the start of  the  game,  the
Enterprise is at coordinates50.50.02, so all solar systems in the
Regional  Zone  at  the  start  of  the  game  will  be  in  this
approximate  area of space,  ranging from Dixiak at  51.40.04  to
Cemen at 64.67.11.

Local Zone
  At the highest magnification,  you will see a Local Zone.  This
is  a  spherical area one-quarter the radius  of  the  Quarantine
Zone. As in a regional zone, the solar systems vary, depending on
the Enterprise's coordinates.  At the start of the game, with the
Enterprise  at  coordinates 50.50.02,  all solar systems  in  the
Local  Zone will be directly within this area of  space,  ranging
from Dizok at 53.46.03 to Cerkek at 52.55.12.

Plotting a Course Using the Starglobe
   The  Starglobe  is 100  light-years  in  diameter.  Therefore,
Daliak,  the center star within the globe positioned at 51.50.50,
is 51 light-years from the left edge of the Starglobe,  50 light-
years  from  the top of the globe,  and 50 light-years  into  the
Starglobe.
   All  solar  systems can be located in  space  by  their  three
coordinates,  labeled X,  Y, and Z. The first axis, the X, is the
horizontal  east-west axis.  The second,  the  Y,  signifies  the
vertical, north-south axis. The Z axis runs into the screen, from
you into space.
  At the start of the game,  you will notice that the systems are
moving in a circle from right to left. Circling around the center
of the screen is the Enterprise (the blue plus sign). In order to
align the X axis,  stop the rotation (by clicking on the rotation
icon)  when  the Enterprise is bright blue and  directly  in  the
center of the globe.  All of the systems with high X  coordinates
will now be on the left, and those with low X coordinates will be
on the right (Puniex,  at 88.65.70,  will be at the extreme left,
while Hazion, at 18.44.75, will be at the extreme right). Systems
with low Y coordinates will be at the top,  and those with high Y
coordinates will be at the bottom (Ranar, at 26.14.40, will be at
the  extreme  top,  while Xuxiaz,  at 45.89.44,  will be  at  the
extreme bottom).
  Because there are so many solar systems,  you will not be  able
to go directly to every one.  Instead,  the Enterprise must "hop"
from  system  to  system and move through  the  different  zones,
increasing  the  level  of magnification in order  to  reach  the
desired destination.  For example,  at the start of the game, the
Enterprise  is at coordinates 50.50.02.  If you want to  get  the
Enterprise to Geklan (63.51.16) you first have to go to Taziok in
the Regional Zone (54.44.17) because Geklan is in the same radius
of space as Taziok, but is nowhere near 50.50.02.
   A  solar system in the Quarantine Zone must be  used  as  your
first stepping stone.  You then move to the regional zone to  get
into a tighter region of space, and then, finally, the Local Zone
to locate your destination.
   Navigating  to a particular solar system is not easy  and  you
will have to experiment to use this syastem to your advantage.

Klingon, Romulan, Federation, or Independant?
  Once you have selected a solar system (by clicking on a star on
the Starglobe),  bring Spock into the primary display area and he
will  tell you who controls that system and how many planets  are
in it.
   It  is  important to remember that all types  of  enemies  can
attack you,  regardless of the solar system you are in.  In other
words,  just  because  Spock  tells you that you  have  chosen  a
Federation  system,  you are not necessarily safer there than  if
you had chosen a Klingon, Romulan, or Independant system.

Setting Course for a Solar System
   Once you have decided on the solar system you want to  go  to,
you  must  set your course.  Move the cursor to  the  Set  Course
window  on  the Starglobe screen and click.  You will now  see  a
green  line  confirming that your course has been  set  extending
from  the  Enterprise to the desired system,  covering  the  blue
line.

Getting Where You Want to Go
  To reach your selected destination,  you must access the  drive
controls screen (through Sulu).  Here you will see three  control
points;  Warp Speed, Impulse Speed, and STOP. Interstellar travel
requires Warp Speed.  Set the warp engine control to the  desired
velocity (a green activation light will confirm this) but keep an
ear open for a warning from Scotty, if the ship is travelling too
fast  for  a  long period of time.  If  you  hear  this  warning,
immediately  reduce your warp speed to the next available  speed.
You  can change your warp speed or stop your engines at any  time
during interstellar travel.
  Note: If you are travelling through space, any screen can be in
the primary display area except for the Starglobe screen. If this
screen  is in the primary display area,  the Enterprise will  not
move.
  During play,  the dilithium crystals drain. At the start of the
game,  you  will  be able to go warp 10,  but the next  time  you
travel, you may only have warp 8 or 9 available to you. If you do
not   replenish  your  dilithium  crystal  supply   quite   often
throughout the game,  eventually you will be unable to travel any
faster than warp 3 and interstellar travel will take a very  long
time.
   If you choose a warp speed and see that the  green  activation
light  is not on,  you have not set your course.  Go back to  the
Starglobe  screen,  set the course,  and you will now be able  to
warp to your destination.
   Once the Enterprise reaches its destination,  the STOP  window
will turn red and a bell-like tone will sound.
  During interstellar travel,  it is possible to change course at
any  time.  Bring  the Starglobe into the primary  display  area;
select your new destination,  and set your course.  After setting
your course, make sure the Starglobe screen is not in the primary
display area, or the Enterprise will not move.

Setting Course for a Planet
  Once you have reached a solar system,  bring the  solar  system
screen  (access  via Sulu) into the  primary  display  area.  The
Enterprise's position and the locations of all the planets in the
system are shown in this display.

  Each solar system consists of three to six planets.  To plot  a
course,  click on any one of them.  You will see a series of blue
dashes  leading from the Enterprise to the desired  planet.  Once
you have done this, bring Spock into the primary display area and
he  will  tell you what type of planet you  have  selected  (i.e.
Life-Supporting, Energy Refinery, etc.).

  A world's "type" depends on intrinsic properties of the  planet
and  its biosphere,  the intelligent lifeforms that  inhabit  the
planet,  artificial  robot-controlled installations,  or  devices
previously constructed there.  Unless a planet is listed as Life-
Supporting,  its environment is too hostile for landing  parties,
and therefore you cannot beam down to it.

  After selecting a planet,  you must confirm your destination by
clicking on the Confirm window on the solar system  screen.  This
window remains framed until you click on it.

Traveling to a Planet
   To  move  the Enterprise through  a  system,  move  the  drive
controls  screen (accessed through Sulu)into the primary  display
area and click on your desired impulse speed. (You cannot use the
warp speed to travel within a system.) You can now switch to  the
solar  system  screen and watch the Enterprise  progress  to  its
destination.

   If you are moving through a system but you have not  confirmed
your  destination,  the  Enterprise will continually  circle  the
perimiter  of  the solar system but will never  reach  a  planet.
While  the Enterprise is travelling,  you can confirm its  course
without having to stop the engines.

Beaming Down to a Planet

The Transporter
  When the Enterprise establishes orbit around a  Life-Supporting
planet,  you can prepare to beam down.  Move Kirk's screen to the
primary  display area and click on the  transporter  window.  You
will  now be in the transporter room and can assemble  a  landing
party.

The Landing Party
   The  transporter screen features a portrait of  each  of  your
seven officers.  Clicking on a character's portrait moves him  or
her  onto  one  of the six transporter  discs  on  the  platform.
Clicking on a character who is on the transporter removes him  or
her from the platform.  Although it is only possible to transport
six  people down to a planet at a time,  it is not  necessary  to
beam  six people down.  You can bring just one  person,  but  you
might  find  that  the more crew members you  bring  the  better,
because each one can help you in a different way.

Stores
   The ship's stores are where you keep various objects that  you
have collected from the planets.  The stores are available at all
times, through Kirks screen. At the start of the game, the ship's
stores  will be empty.  When you are on a planet and you beam  an
object up,  it goes directly into the stores.  If the object is a
device that can be installed into the ship,  it is  automatically
installed for you.

  To see the objects you have beamed into the stores, move Kirk's
screen into the primary display area,  place the cursor onto  the
Stores   window   and  click.   You  will  now  see   a   graphic
representation  of  one of the items you have beamed up  and  its
name.  The  word "Installed" will appear if the object  has  been
installed into the ship.

  You can only see one item in the store at a time.  If you  have
beamed up more than one object, move the cursor to the picture of
the  object  shown on the screen and click.  You will now  see  a
picture of the second object you beamed up.

  The ship's stores cannot hold more than one of any object  that
has  to be installed.  If,  for instance,  you have a Solar  Scan
Device,  an item that is installed into the ship, and you beam to
another planet that has this device,  you can beam it up but  you
will  not then have two of them -- one item will cancel  out  the
other.  The stores can, however, hold more than one of any object
that is not installed.  A number appears near the picture of  the
object telling you how many you have.

Giving the Crew Equipment
  To equip your crew with objects from the stores, you must first
get them onto the transporter platform (see "The Landing  Party",
page  20).  In the left-hand corner of the transporter screen  is
the   stores  window.   After  assembling  your  crew  onto   the
transporter,  move the cursor to the Stores window.  You will now
see a picture of one of the objects in the stores plus  portraits
of  the  crew members in your landing  party.  (Note  that  these
portraits will not appear if you access the stores through Kirk's
screen.  They  will  only  be visible if you  access  the  stores
through the transporter screen.  Also,  portraits will not appear
next to items that are installed.)
  Say,  for example,  you wanted to beam down  Spock,  Kirk,  and
scotty  with  objects  from  the  stores.   Place  them  in   the
transporter, and access the stores. By clicking on the objects in
the  stores,  you find that you have one lepton gun and  one  ZMX
device.  You want to give the gun to Spock,  so you make sure the
picture  of the gun is showing.  Now move the cursor  to  Spock's
portrait and click.  A frame will appear around Spock's  portrait
signifying that he has taken the gun. The picture of the gun will
now automatically be replaced by a picture of the next object  in
the stores,  the ZMX device. To give this to Kirk, put the cursor
on Kirk's portrait and click.
  If you forget what Spock is holding, move the cursor to Spock's
picture and click.  You will now see a picture of what he has and
a frame will appear around his portrait.
   To  take the gun from Spock,  click on his portrait  a  second
time. The frame will disappear from his portrait and the gun will
go back to the stores.

Beaming Down
   To beam down to a planet,  return to the  transporter  through
Kirk's  screen.  Move  the cursor to the T in the center  of  the
transporter and click.  The landing party screen then appears  in
the primary display area and the secondary screen area fills with
pictures of the Enterprise.

   To  beam  back  up to the ship,  click on  any  of  the  seven
secondary Enterprise screens.

Exploring a Planet
   The landing party screen is designed to display only  relevant
data  rather  than provide a tourist's guide to  the  planet.  It
consists of a message window, portraits of the landing party, and
a  picture of whatever object or lifeform the  party  encounters.
The  message window explains what or whom they  have  encountered
and whether the way ahead is blocked or clear.

  The crew members have different reactions to objects and  life-
forms.  Clicking on a crew member's portrait displays his or  her
suggested course of action in the message window.  To get another
suggestion,  click  on  the next  crew  member's  portrait.  This
process can be repeated for each landing party  member,  allowing
you  to  "poll" the party and then select  the  most  appropriate
response. You may want to select Spock first and have him analyze
or decode all objects.

   Once you have decided on a crew member's suggested  course  of
action,  click  under his or her  suggestion.  For  example,  if,
having  encountered  an  object,   you  select  Scotty,  and  his
suggested course of action is "Beam it up," click under the words
"Beam  it up" and the object will be beamed aboard the  ship  and
placed in the stores.

  If the way ahead is clear, clicking on the "Move Ahead" message
moves  the landing party past the current object or  lifeform  to
the next object or lifeform along the way.

   Sometimes an object encountered may injure some or all of  the
landing party.  Injured crew members cannot take any further part
in  the  action  until they recover  from  their  injuries.  Crew
members  who are injured will heal on the planet,  but they  will
heal  more quickly on the Enterprise.  The healing process  takes
time.  You  can continue to explore the planet and  injured  crew
members  will  remain in the landing party,  but until  they  are
healed you will not be able to choose them.  The entire party can
sometimes be injured by an object or lifeform.  If this  happens,
beam  back up to the Enterprise immediately so that everyone  can
heal quickly and beam back down.

   Once  on board the ship,  you can monitor  the  crew's  health
status  through McCoy's screen.  All crew members' portraits  are
always on McCoy's screen and you will hear their heartbeats. When
a  crew member is 100% healthy,  you will see a green  horizontal
bar, approximately one inch long, under his or her portrait. When
the  crew  member  is  injured,  part of this  bar  will  be  red
(depending on the extent of the injuries) and he or she will  not
be available to beam down until the red part of the bar is  gone.
An injured person's bar will be green,  red and black.  Once  the
bar is just green and black,  the injured person will be  approx-
imately 75% healthy and will be able to beam down.  A person does
not have to be 100% healthy in order to beam down.

Engaging in Battle
  The Enterprise may encounter hostile vessels at any time during
a visit to a solar system. They can be Klingon, Romulan, or rebel
Federation ships.

  The ship's red alert siren automatically signifies the start of
a combat sequence. The siren can be turned off by clicking on the
flashing  red  alert window at the bottom of the  bridge  screen.
Kirk's voice calls the crew to battle stations.

   During  the  battle,  the Enterprise  no  longer  follows  any
previously  set interplanetary course.  If you look at the  solar
system screen during battle,  you will notice that the Enterprise
has  stopped moving.  This is because once a battle  begins,  the
Enterprise  breaks  off course and positions  itself  for  battle
maneuvers. Once the battle is resolved, the Enterprise returns to
the original course.

   There are three screens,  which are accessed  through  Chekov,
that aid you in combat:
     *  The  weapons  screen,  which allows you  to  select  your
        weapons.
     *  The tracking screen, which allows you to select the enemy
        ship you wish to fight.
     *  The targeting screen,  which allows you to lock on target
        and fire weapons.

Choosing Your Weapons
  Before you engage in combat,  you must decide whether you  want
to fire your photon torpedos or your phasers.  Bring Chekov  into
the primary display area and choose the weapons screen.

  This screen shows four phaser banks and the number of torpedoes
available.  To  choose the phasers,  click on any or all  of  the
activation windows below the vertical bars.  You will see a green
light indicating that the bank you chose has been activated.  Any
combination of phaser banks may be used.  Clicking on the  window
beneath an activated bank deactivates it.

   To activate your photon torpedoes,  click on the window  below
the number showing your remaining torpedo supply.  (You can  have
up to fifty torpedoes.) A green light will indicate activation of
the  torpedoes.  Activating  your  torpedoes  will  automatically
deactivate your phasers:  although you can shoot any  combination
of phasers at once,  you cannot shoot both phasers and  torpedoes
similtaneously.  Clicking  on  the window beneath  the  activated
torpedoes will deactivate them.

  Generally, photon torpedoes do more damage than all four phaser
banks firing similtaneously,  but they should be used  sparingly.
Torpedoes,  unlike phaser banks,  do not automatically  recharge.
You  must get a new supply at a Weapons Dump.  All phaser  banks,
regardless  of  relative  energy level,  do the  same  amount  of
damage.

   Unless a phaser bank is hit by enermy fire,  it will  recharge
itself.  However,  when  the energy level drops below  a  certain
point  -- about four-fifths of the way down -- it will no  longer
fire.  You must wait for it to recharge, and drained phaser banks
recharge very slowly.

  If a phaser bank does not activate when you click on  it,  this
means that the phaser bank has been hit by enemy fire and can  be
partially  repaired  at a Weapons Dump,  or fully repaired  at  a
Repair  Drone Dock.  Damaged phaser banks have no effect  on  the
remaining intact banks.

Tracking the Enemy
   Now that you have chosen your weapons,  you must select  which
enemy  you  will fire at first.  (You must deal  with  all  enemy
ships,  but you can only fight one at a time.) Move the  tracking
grid  into  the primary display area.  The tracking  grid  screen
contains a perspective grid displaying the positions of the enemy
vessel(s)  relative to the Enterprise (which is in the center  of
the  screen).  If the Enterprise is moving,  it's presumed to  be
moving north across the grid,  i.e.,  into the screen.  The  grid
shows each enemy vessel as a T-bar, the base of which lies in the
plane  of  the  grid.  To  choose the  enemy  ship  you  wish  to
challenge,  click  on  the cross-bar of the T and  the  targeting
screen will automatically appear in the primary display area (see
the following section, "Locking On Target").

   You can view the tracking grid from any angle.  To select  the
viewing  angle,  click on the V control box.  This will turn  the
grid, along with the enemy ship, upside down. (The more times you
click,  the  faster the grid will turn.) You do not have to  turn
the grid completely upside down.  You can stop the grid's turn by
clicking  on the V while it's moving.  (If you're playing with  a
mouse,  press the fire button on the left to turn the grid upside
down. Press the button on the right to turn it right side up.)

   To  modify  the altitude of the Enterprise,  click  on  the  A
control box.  Since the Enterprise is at the center of the  grid,
when it gains altitude the other vessels on the grid will  appear
to lose altitude relative to it,  and vice versa.  The more times
you  click,  the more altitude the Enterprise will gain or  loose
(depending on which fire button you use);  clicking once or twice
will have a very minimal effect.

  The S control box manipulates the spin of the Enterprise. Since
the  Enterprise  heads directly into the screen,  the  effect  of
giving the ship spin is to rotate the entire tracking grid in the
opposite direction.

Locking on Target
   To  select a target vessel,  click on the cross-bar of  the  T
representing  that vessel on the tracking  grid.  This  transfers
that  vessel to the targeting screen,  which expands to fill  the
primary display area.

  The targeting screen is blank until a target is chosen from the
targeting   grid.   The  targeting  grid  displays   a   computer
representation of the enemy ship reconstructed in real time  from
data collected by the Enterprise's sensors. this simulated camera
automatically  tracks and follows the enemy vessel during all  of
it's maneuvers.

  Before the Enterprise can fire at a target, it must lock on its
weapons  systems.  Using the joystick or mouse,  center  the  red
target circle on any part of the enemy ship and  click.  Chekov's
voice  confirms when weapons are locked on.  From this point  on,
the target circle will remain fixed on that portion of the  enemy
ship regardless of its maneuvering.  To unlock your weapons,  put
the cursor within the target circle, click, and the target circle
will unlock.

   The  target  circle  represents  the  field  of  fire  of  the
Enterprises weapons. As the enemy vessel moves closer, the target
circle  shrinks  to  indicate that the  accuracy  is  increasing.
Conversely,  if  the enemy ship moves away,  the circle grows  to
reflect diminished accuracy.

Firing Weapons
  Once you have chosen your weapons and have locked onto an enemy
ship,  it's time for combat! There are four boxes surrounding the
viewing  window on the targeting screen.  Each of the boxes  does
the same damage;  they do not change your direction of  fire.  To
destroy an enemy ship,  just continue clicking on any of the four
firing boxes until you hear Cherkov say, "Got him!" and the enemy
ship disappears.

Enemy Status
  Spock monitors the status of all enemy ships.  Bring Spock into
the  primary display area and click on the enemy control  window.
(This  window is only available during battle.) You can  now  see
the status of the enemy ship. If the enemy ship's structure is at
75%, this means that one quarter of the ship has been destroyed.

Helpful Hints
   If you are looking at the targeting screen and the enemy  ship
appears  to be very small and far away,  or if the Enterprise  is
looking  at it head on and the enemy appears very  narrow,  bring
the tracking grid into the primary display area and decide  which
enemy  ship (T-bar) you want to deal with first.  Click on the  A
box until the T appears very tall.  Spin the grid (by clicking on
the  S)  so  that  the enemy ship is directly  in  front  of  the
Enterprise.  (Remember that the Enterprise is travelling  north.)
Once the enemy ship is in front of the Enterprise, click on the S
to stop the spin.  Now click on the T.  When the targeting screen
appears,  lock onto the enemy,  but instead of firing,  switch to
the  drive  control screen (through Sulu) and  set  your  Impulse
engines  at either one-quarter or one-half.  Now go back  to  the
targeting screen and fire.  The enemy ship will now be very large
on the targeting screen, providing increased accuracy.

  Firing your torpedoes directly at the head or neck of the enemy
ship does more damage, although your accuracy will be decreased.

  Activate all phasers and only fire them about four  times.  (If
you fire the phasers too often, their energy will be depleted and
they  will  not fire.) If the enemy has not yet  been  destroyed,
activate your torpedoes and fire them until your phaser banks are
replenished.  This  will  save  you from  spending  all  of  your
torpedoes and give your phasers time to regenerate.

Monitoring Ship's Systems

Damage to the Enterprise
   It's  a  good idea to check on the status  of  the  Enterprise
frequently,  especially after a battle.  To do this,  bring Spock
into the primary display area and click on the Enterprise window.
Unlike  the  enemy  window,   this  is  available  at  all  times
throughout the game.

  The structure of the Enterprise will decrease after battle. How
much depends on how badly the ship was hit.  If,  at the start of
the battle,  the structure was 100% and the ship was hit a number
of times,  it might be down to 70% when the battle is  over.  The
structure  can be fully repaired at a Repair Drone dock.  If  the
structure  of the Enterprise drops to zero,  the Enterprise  will
become derelict and the mission will fail.

  The energy of the Enterprise will decrease after battle,  or if
you  have used your impulse engines without replenishing them  at
an Energy Refinery or Repair Drone Dock.  It is recommended  that
you keep your energy at at least 50% at all times.  If the energy
level drops to zero, all life-support systems will fail.

   The status of the phaser banks can also be  monitored  through
Spock. If, according to Spock, your phaser banks are at 50%, then
you will only have access to half of your phaser supply.

Warp and Impulse Engines
  The status of the warp and impulse engines can be monitored via
Scotty's screen. Horizontal bar graphs indicate the energy levels
of the warp and impulse engines.

  There are no control points on Scotty's screen.

Weapons Status
   Throughout the game,  it's a good idea to watch the status  of
the phaser banks and photon torpedoes.  These can be monitored at
any time during the game, via Chekov.

Communications
    Lieutenant   Uhura   governs   communications.   A   hailling
communications whistle sounds whenever Uhura receives a communic-
ation from either Starfleet,  an Archive Complex,  or a  Tracking
Station.  At the sound of the whistle,  bring Uhura's screen into
the primary display area and read her message.

  There are no control points on Uhura's screen.
